*v3*

*A G U I D E T O T H E B U S I N E S S A N A LY S I S  BODY OF KNOWLEDGE ®*   
 BABOK® 

**v3** 

A GUIDE TO THE BUSINESS ANALYSIS   
BODY OF KNOWLEDGE®  
International Institute of Business Analysis, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

©2005, 2006, 2008, 2009, 2015 International Institute of Business Analysis. All rights reserved. 

Version 1.0 and 1.4 published 2005\. Version 1.6 Draft published 2006\. Version 1.6 Final published 2008\. Version 2.0  published 2009\. Version 3.0 published 2015\. 

ISBN-13: 97978-1-927584-03-3 

Permission is granted to reproduce this document for your own personal, professional, or educational use. If you have  purchased a license to use this document from IIBA®, you may transfer ownership to a third party. IIBA® members may not  transfer ownership of their complimentary copy.   
Complimentary IIBA   
This document is provided to the business analysis community for educational purposes. IIBA® does not warrant that it is  suitable for any other purpose and makes no expressed or implied warranty of any kind and assumes no responsibility for  errors or omissions. No liability is assumed for incidental or consequential damages in connection with or arising out of the  use of the information contained herein. 

IIBA®, the IIBA® logo, *BABOK*® and *Business Analysis Body of Knowledge*® are registered trademarks owned by  International Institute of Business Analysis. CBAP® is a registered certification mark owned by International Institute of  Business Analysis. Certified Business Analysis Professional, EEP and the EEP logo are trademarks owned by International    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Institute of Business Analysis. 

Archimate® is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the US and other countries. 

Business Model Canvas is copyrighted by BusinessModelGeneration.com and released under Creative Commons license. CMMI® is a registered trademark of Carnegie Mellon University. 

COBIT® is a trademark of the Information Systems Audit and Control Association and the IT Governance Institute. Mind Map® is a registered trademark of the Buzan Organization. 

Scaled Agile Framework® and SAFe™ are trademarks of Scaled Agile, Inc. 

TOGAF® is a registered trademark of The Open Group in the US and other countries. 

Unified Modelling Language™ and UML® are trademarks of the Object Management Group. 

Zachman Framework for Enterprise Architecture is a trademark of the Zachman Institute for Framework Advancement. 

No challenge to the status or ownership of these or any other trademarked terms contained herein is intended by the  International Institute of Business Analysis. 

Any inquiries regarding this publication, requests for usage rights for the material included herein, or corrections should be  sent by email to bok@iiba.org.  
**Table of Contents** 

Complimentary IIBA   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Chapter 1: Introduction** 

1.1 Purpose of the *BABOK*® *Guide* 1 

1.2 What is Business Analysis? 2 

1.3 Who is a Business Analyst? 2 

1.4 Structure of the *BABOK*® *Guide* 3 

**Chapter 2: Business Analysis Key Concepts** 

2.1 The Business Analysis Core Concept Model™ 12 

2.2 Key Terms 14 

2.3 Requirements Classification Schema 16 

2.4 Stakeholders 16 

2.5 Requirements and Designs 19 

**Chapter 3: Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring** 

3.1 Plan Business Analysis Approach 24 

3.2 Plan Stakeholder Engagement 31 

3.3 Plan Business Analysis Governance 37 

3.4 Plan Business Analysis Information Management 42 

3.5 Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements 47

i   
Table of Contents 

**Chapter 4: Elicitation and Collaboration** 

4.1 Prepare for Elicitation 56 

4.2 Conduct Elicitation 61 

4.3 Confirm Elicitation Results 65 

4.4 Communicate Business Analysis Information 67 

4.5 Manage Stakeholder Collaboration 71 

**Chapter 5: Requirements Life Cycle Management** 

5.1 Trace Requirements 79 

5.2 Maintain Requirements 83 

5.3 Prioritize Requirements 86   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
5.4 Assess Requirements Changes 91 

5.5 Approve Requirements 95 

**Chapter 6: Strategy Analysis** 

6.1 Analyze Current State 103 

6.2 Define Future State 110 

6.3 Assess Risks 120 

6.4 Define Change Strategy 124 

**Chapter 7: Requirements Analysis and Design Definition** 

7.1 Specify and Model Requirements 136   
Complimentary IIBA   
7.2 Verify Requirements 141 

7.3 Validate Requirements 144 

7.4 Define Requirements Architecture 148 

7.5 Define Design Options 152 

7.6 Analyze Potential Value and Recommend Solution 157 

**Chapter 8: Solution Evaluation** 

8.1 Measure Solution Performance 166 

8.2 Analyze Performance Measures 170 

8.3 Assess Solution Limitations 173 

8.4 Assess Enterprise Limitations 177 

8.5 Recommend Actions to Increase Solution Value 182 

**Chapter 9: Underlying Competencies** 

9.1 Analytical Thinking and Problem Solving 188

ii   
Table of Contents 

9.2 Behavioural Characteristics 194 

9.3 Business Knowledge 199 

9.4 Communication Skills 203 

9.5 Interaction Skills 207 

9.6 Tools and Technology 211 

**Chapter 10: Techniques** 

10.1 Acceptance and Evaluation Criteria 217 

10.2 Backlog Management 220 

10.3 Balanced Scorecard 223 

10.4 Benchmarking and Market Analysis 226   
Complimentary IIBA   
10.5 Brainstorming 227 

10.6 Business Capability Analysis 230 

10.7 Business Cases 234 

10.8 Business Model Canvas 236 

10.9 Business Rules Analysis 240   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
10.10 Collaborative Games 243 

10.11 Concept Modelling 245 

10.12 Data Dictionary 247 

10.13 Data Flow Diagrams 250 

10.14 Data Mining 253 

10.15 Data Modelling 256 

10.16 Decision Analysis 261 

10.17 Decision Modelling 265 

10.18 Document Analysis 269 

10.19 Estimation 271 

10.20 Financial Analysis 274 

10.21 Focus Groups 279 

10.22 Functional Decomposition 283 

10.23 Glossary 286 

10.24 Interface Analysis 287 

10.25 Interviews 290 

10.26 Item Tracking 294 

10.27 Lessons Learned 296 

10.28 Metrics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 297 

10.29 Mind Mapping 299 

10.30 Non-Functional Requirements Analysis 302 

10.31 Observation 305 

10.32 Organizational Modelling 308

iii   
Table of Contents 

10.33 Prioritization 311 

10.34 Process Analysis 314 

10.35 Process Modelling 318 

10.36 Prototyping 323 

10.37 Reviews 326 

10.38 Risk Analysis and Management 329 

10.39 Roles and Permissions Matrix 333 

10.40 Root Cause Analysis 335 

10.41 Scope Modelling 338 

10.42 Sequence Diagrams 341 

10.43 Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas 344 

10.44 State Modelling 348   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
10.45 Survey or Questionnaire 350 

10.46 SWOT Analysis 353 

10.47 Use Cases and Scenarios 356 

10.48 User Stories 359 

10.49 Vendor Assessment 361 

10.50 Workshops 363 

**Chapter 11: Perspectives** 

11.1 The Agile Perspective 368 

11.2 The Business Intelligence Perspective 381 

11.3 The Information Technology Perspective 394   
Complimentary IIBA   
11.4 The Business Architecture Perspective 408 

11.5 The Business Process Management Perspective 424 

**Appendix A: Glossary 441** 

**Appendix B: Techniques to Task Mapping 457** 

**Appendix C: Contributors 473** 

**Appendix D: Summary of Changes from BABOK® Guide v 2.0 483**

iv   
**Preface** 

IIBA® was founded in Toronto, Canada in October of 2003 to support the business analysis community  by: 

• creating and developing awareness and recognition of the value and contribution of the business  analyst, 

• defining the *Business Analysis Body of Knowledge®* (*BABOK®*), 

• providing a forum for knowledge sharing and contribution to the business analysis profession, and 

• publicly recognizing and certifying qualified practitioners through an internationally  acknowledged certification program.   
Complimentary IIBA   
The Body of Knowledge Committee was formed in October of 2004 to define and draft a global  standard for the practice of business analysis. In January of 2005, IIBA released version 1.0 of *A Guide  to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*) for feedback and comment. That version  included an outline of the proposed content and some key definitions. Version 1.4 was released in  October of 2005, with draft content in some knowledge areas. Version 1.6, which included detailed  ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
information regarding most of the knowledge areas, was published in draft form in June of 2006 and  updated to incorporate errata in October of 2008\. 

The Body of Knowledge Committee developed version 2.0 of *A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of  Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*) with the guidance of expert writing teams, and feedback garnered from  expert, practitioner, and public reviews. Version 2.0 introduced such concepts as the Requirements  Classification Schema and the Input/Output models. Version 2.0 was published in 2009 and became the  globally recognized standard for the practice of business analysis. 

Following the publication of version 2.0, IIBA sought out a number of recognized experts in business  analysis and related fields and solicited their feedback on the content of that edition. The Body of  Knowledge Committee used these comments to plan the vision and scope of this revision. The Body of  Knowledge Committee worked with teams of expert writers to revise and update the content. The  revised draft of *A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*) was reviewed  by teams of both expert and practitioner reviewers. The Body of Knowledge Committee used the  feedback provided to further enhance and refine the text and then made the content available to the  business analysis community for review in 2014\. The thousands of items of feedback from this public  review were used to further revise the text to form *A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of  Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*) version 3.0. 

The goal of this revision was to: 

• incorporate new concepts and practices in use since the last revision, 

• address the broadening and evolving scope of the profession, 

• incorporate lessons learned from practitioners who have worked with the current version, • improve the readability and usability of the guide, 

• improve the consistency and quality of text and illustrations, and 

• improve consistency with other generally accepted standards relating to the practice of business  analysis.

v   
The major changes in this release include: 

• the inclusion of the *Business Analysis Core Concept Model™* (*BACCM™*), 

• the expanded scope of the role of business analysis in creating better business outcomes, 

• the inclusion of Perspectives which describe specialized ways in which business analysis  professionals provide unique value to the enterprise, 

• new and expanded Underlying Competencies to better reflect the diverse skill sets of the business  analyst, and 

• new techniques that have emerged in the practice of business analysis. 

This publication supersedes *A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*)  version 2.0. 

The *BABOK® Guide* contains a description of generally accepted practices in the field of business  ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
analysis. The content included in this release has been verified through reviews by practitioners, surveys  of the business analysis community, and consultations with recognized experts in the field. The data  available to IIBA demonstrates that the tasks and techniques described in this publication are in use by a  majority of business analysis practitioners. As a result, we can have confidence that the tasks and  techniques described in the *BABOK® Guide* should be applicable in most contexts where business  analysis is performed, most of the time. 

The *BABOK® Guide* should not be construed to mandate that the practices described in this publication  should be followed under all circumstances. Any set of practices must be tailored to the specific  conditions under which business analysis is being performed. In addition, practices which are not  generally accepted by the business analysis community at the time of publication may be equally  effective, or more effective, than the practices described in the *BABOK® Guide*. As such practices  become generally accepted, and as data is collected to verify their effectiveness, they will be  incorporated into future editions of this publication. IIBA encourages all practitioners of business  analysis to be open to new approaches and new ideas, and wishes to encourage innovation in the  Complimentary IIBA   
practice of business analysis. 

IIBA would like to extend its thanks and the thanks of the business analysis community to all those who  volunteered their time and effort to the development of this revision, as well as those who provided  informal feedback to us in other ways.

vi   
**1 Introduction**   
Complimentary IIBA   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
*A Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge®* (*BABOK® Guide*) is the    
globally recognized standard for the practice of business analysis. The *BABOK®* 

*Guide* describes business analysis knowledge areas, tasks, underlying  

competencies, techniques and perspectives on how to approach business  

analysis. 

**1.1 Purpose of the BABOK® Guide** 

The primary purpose of the *BABOK® Guide* is to define the profession of business  

analysis and provide a set of commonly accepted practices. It helps practitioners  

discuss and define the skills necessary to effectively perform business analysis    
work. The *BABOK® Guide* also helps people who work with and employ business  

analysts to understand the skills and knowledge they should expect from a skilled  

practitioner. 

Business analysis is a broad profession in which business analysts might perform  

work for many different types of initiatives across an enterprise. Practitioners may  

employ different competencies, knowledge, skills, terminology, and attitudes that    
they use when performing business analysis tasks. The *BABOK® Guide* is a  

common framework for all perspectives, describing business analysis tasks that  

are performed to properly analyze a change or evaluate the necessity for a  

change. Tasks may vary in form, order, or importance for individual business  

analysts or for various initiatives. 

The six knowledge areas of the *BABOK® Guide* (Business Analysis Planning and  

Monitoring, Elicitation and Collaboration, Requirements Life Cycle Management,  

Strategy Analysis, Requirements Analysis and Design Definition (RADD), and 

1   
What is Business Analysis? Introduction 

Solution Evaluation) describe the practice of business analysis as it is applied  within the boundaries of a project or throughout enterprise evolution and  continuous improvement. The following image shows how three of the  knowledge areas support the delivery of business value before, during, and after  the life cycle of a project. 

**Figure 1.1.1: Business Analysis Beyond Projects** 

**Project** 

**Pre-Project Post-Project**   
**Project** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Rationale** 

**Strategy Analysis**   
**Delivery RADD**   
**Benefits** 

**Solution Evaluation**

**1.2 What is Business Analysis?** 

Business analysis is the practice of enabling change in an enterprise by defining  

needs and recommending solutions that deliver value to stakeholders. Business  

analysis enables an enterprise to articulate needs and the rationale for change,  

and to design and describe solutions that can deliver value. 

Business analysis is performed on a variety of initiatives within an enterprise.  

Initiatives may be strategic, tactical, or operational. Business analysis may be    
Complimentary IIBA   
performed within the boundaries of a project or throughout enterprise evolution  

and continuous improvement. It can be used to understand the current state, to  

define the future state, and to determine the activities required to move from the  

current to the future state. 

Business analysis can be performed from a diverse array of perspectives. The    
*BABOK® Guide* describes several of these perspectives: agile, business  

intelligence, information technology, business architecture, and business process  

management. A perspective can be thought of as a lens through which the  

business analysis practitioner views their work activities based on the current  

context. One or many perspectives may apply to an initiative, and the perspectives    
outlined in the *BABOK® Guide* do not represent all the contexts for business  

analysis or the complete set of business analysis disciplines. 

**1.3 Who is a Business Analyst?** 

A business analyst is any person who performs business analysis tasks described in    
the *BABOK® Guide*, no matter their job title or organizational role. Business  

analysts are responsible for discovering, synthesizing, and analyzing information  

2   
Introduction Structure of the BABOK® Guide 

from a variety of sources within an enterprise, including tools, processes,  

documentation, and stakeholders. The business analyst is responsible for eliciting  

the actual needs of stakeholders—which frequently involves investigating and  

clarifying their expressed desires—in order to determine underlying issues and  

causes. 

Business analysts play a role in aligning the designed and delivered solutions with  

the needs of stakeholders. The activities that business analysts perform include: 

• understanding enterprise problems and goals, 

• analyzing needs and solutions, 

• devising strategies, 

• driving change, and 

• facilitating stakeholder collaboration.   
Complimentary IIBA   
Other common job titles for people who perform business analysis include: 

• business architect, 

• business systems analyst, 

• data analyst,   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• enterprise analyst, 

• management consultant, 

• process analyst, 

• product manager, 

• product owner, 

• requirements engineer, and 

• systems analyst. 

**1.4 Structure of the BABOK® Guide** 

The core content of the *BABOK® Guide* is composed of business analysis tasks  

organized into knowledge areas. Knowledge areas are a collection of logically  

(but not sequentially) related tasks. These tasks describe specific activities that  

accomplish the purpose of their associated knowledge area. 

The Business Analysis Key Concepts, Underlying Competencies, Techniques, and    
Perspectives sections form the extended content in the *BABOK® Guide* that helps  

guide business analysts to better perform business analysis tasks. 

• **Business Analysis Key Concepts**: define the key terms needed to    
understand all other content, concepts, and ideas within the *BABOK®* 

*Guide*. 

• **Underlying Competencies**: provide a description of the behaviours,  

characteristics, knowledge, and personal qualities that support the effective  

practice of business analysis.

3   
Structure of the BABOK® Guide Introduction 

• **Techniques**: provide a means to perform business analysis tasks. The    
techniques described in the *BABOK® Guide* are intended to cover the most  

common and widespread techniques practiced within the business analysis  

community. 

• **Perspectives**: describe various views of business analysis. Perspectives help  

business analysts working from various points of view to better perform  

business analysis tasks, given the context of the initiative. 

**1.4.1 Key Concepts** 

The Business Analysis Key Concepts chapter provides a basic understanding of    
the central ideas necessary for understanding the *BABOK® Guide.* 

This chapter consists of: 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• Business Analysis Core Concept Model™ (BACCM™) 

• Key Terms 

• Requirements Classification Schema 

• Stakeholders 

• Requirements and Design 

**1.4.2 Knowledge Areas** 

Knowledge areas represent areas of specific business analysis expertise that  

encompass several tasks. 

The six knowledge areas are: 

Complimentary IIBA   
Each knowledge  area includes a  visual  

representation of  its inputs and  outputs.   
• **Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring**: describes the tasks that  business analysts perform to organize and coordinate the efforts of  business analysts and stakeholders. These tasks produce outputs that are  used as key inputs and guidelines for the other tasks throughout the  *BABOK® Guide*. 

• **Elicitation and Collaboration**: describes the tasks that business analysts  perform to prepare for and conduct elicitation activities and confirm the  results obtained. It also describes the communication with stakeholders  

once the business analysis information is assembled and the ongoing  collaboration with them throughout the business analysis activities. 

• **Requirements Life Cycle Management**: describes the tasks that business  analysts perform in order to manage and maintain requirements and design  information from inception to retirement. These tasks describe establishing  meaningful relationships between related requirements and designs, and  

assessing, analyzing and gaining consensus on proposed changes to  requirements and designs. 

• **Strategy Analysis**: describes the business analysis work that must be  performed to collaborate with stakeholders in order to identify a need of  strategic or tactical importance (the business need), enable the enterprise to 

4   
Introduction Structure of the BABOK® Guide 

address that need, and align the resulting strategy for the change with  higher- and lower-level strategies. 

• **Requirements Analysis and Design Definition**: describes the tasks that  business analysts perform to structure and organize requirements  discovered during elicitation activities, specify and model requirements and  designs, validate and verify information, identify solution options that meet  business needs, and estimate the potential value that could be realized for  each solution option. This knowledge area covers the incremental and  iterative activities ranging from the initial concept and exploration of the  need through the transformation of those needs into a particular  recommended solution. 

• **Solution Evaluation**: describes the tasks that business analysts perform to  assess the performance of and value delivered by a solution in use by the  Complimentary IIBA   
enterprise, and to recommend removal of barriers or constraints that  prevent the full realization of the value. 

The following diagram shows a general relationship between the knowledge  areas. 

**Figure 1.4.1: Relationships Between Knowledge Areas**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Business Analysis**  

**Planning and**  

**Monitoring** 

**Requirements**  

**Elicitation and  Collaboration**   
**Strategy Analysis**

**Analysis and Design  Definition** 

**Requirements Life  Cycle Management** 

**1.4.3 Tasks**   
**Solution Evaluation** 

A task is a discrete piece of work that may be performed formally or informally as  part of business analysis. The *BABOK® Guide* defines a list of business analysis  tasks. The definition of a given task is universally applicable to business analysis  efforts, independent of the initiative type. A business analyst may perform other  activities as assigned by their organization, but these additional activities are not  

5   
Structure of the BABOK® Guide Introduction 

considered to be part of the business analysis profession. 

Tasks are grouped into knowledge areas. Business analysts perform tasks from all    
knowledge areas sequentially, iteratively, or simultaneously. The *BABOK® Guide* 

does not prescribe a process or an order in which tasks are performed. Tasks may  

be performed in any order, as long as the necessary inputs to a task are present.  

A business analysis initiative may start with any task, although likely candidates  

are Analyze Current State (p. 103\) or Measure Solution Performance (p. 166). 

Each task in the *BABOK® Guide* is presented in the following format: 

• Purpose 

• Description 

• Inputs 

• Elements   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• Guidelines/Tools 

• Techniques 

• Stakeholders 

• Outputs 

**.1 Purpose** 

The Purpose section provides a short description of the reason for a business  

analyst to perform the task, and the value created through performing the task. 

**.2 Description** 

The Description section explains in greater detail what the task is, why it is  

performed, and what it should accomplish.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**.3 Inputs** 

The Inputs section lists the inputs for the task. Inputs are information consumed  

or transformed to produce an output, and represent the information necessary  

for a task to begin. They may be explicitly generated outside the scope of  

business analysis or generated by a business analysis task. Inputs that are  

generated outside of the business analysis efforts are identified with the qualifier  

'(external)' in the input list. 

There is no assumption that the presence of an input means that the associated  

deliverable is complete or in its final state. The input only needs to be sufficiently  

complete to allow successive work to begin. Any number of instances of an input  

may exist during the life cycle of an initiative. 

The Inputs section includes a visual representation of the inputs and outputs, the  

other tasks that use the outputs, as well as the guidelines and tools listed in the  

task. 

**.4 Elements** 

The Elements section describes the key concepts that are needed to understand 

6   
Introduction Structure of the BABOK® Guide 

how to perform the task. Elements are not mandatory as part of performing a  

task, and their usage might depend upon the business analysis approach. 

**.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

The Guidelines and Tools section lists resources that are required to transform the  input into an output. A guideline provides instructions or descriptions on why or  how to undertake a task. A tool is something used to undertake a task. 

Guidelines and tools can include outputs of other tasks. 

**.6 Techniques** 

The Techniques section lists the techniques that can be used to perform the  

business analysis task. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**.7 Stakeholders** 

The Stakeholders section is composed of a generic list of stakeholders who are  likely to participate in performing that task or who will be affected by it. The    
*BABOK® Guide* does not mandate that these roles be filled for any given  

initiative. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**.8 Outputs** 

The Outputs section describes the results produced by performing the task.  

Outputs are created, transformed, or changed in state as a result of the successful  completion of a task. An output may be a deliverable or be a part of a larger  

deliverable. The form of an output is dependent on the type of initiative  

underway, standards adopted by the organization, and best judgment of the  

business analyst as to an appropriate way to address the information needs of key  stakeholders. 

As with inputs, an instance of a task may be completed without an output being  in its final state. Tasks that use a specific output do not necessarily have to wait  for its completion for work within the task to begin. 

**1.4.4 Underlying Competencies** 

Underlying competencies reflect knowledge, skills, behaviours, characteristics,  

and personal qualities that help one successfully perform the role of the business  analyst. These underlying competencies are not unique to the business analysis  profession. However, successful execution of tasks and techniques is often  

dependent on proficiency in one or more underlying competencies. 

Underlying competencies have the following structure: 

• Purpose 

• Definition 

• Effectiveness Measures

7   
Structure of the BABOK® Guide Introduction 

**.1 Purpose** 

The Purpose section describes why it is beneficial for business analysts to have this  

underlying competency. 

**.2 Definition** 

The Definition section describes the skills and expertise involved in the application  

of this competency. 

**.3 Effectiveness Measures** 

The Effectiveness Measures section describes how to determine whether a person  

is demonstrating skills in this underlying competency. 

**1.4.5 Techniques**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Techniques provide additional information on ways that a task may be performed. 

The list of techniques included in the *BABOK® Guide* is not exhaustive. There are  

multiple techniques that may be applied alternatively or in conjunction with other  

techniques to accomplish a task. Business analysts are encouraged to modify  

existing techniques or engineer new ones to best suit their situation and the goals  

of the tasks they perform. 

Techniques have the following structure: 

• Purpose 

• Description 

• Elements 

• Usage Considerations   
Complimentary IIBA   
**.1 Purpose** 

The Purpose section describes what the technique is used for and the  

circumstances under which it is most likely to be applicable. 

**.2 Description** 

The Description section describes what the technique is and how it is used. 

**.3 Elements** 

The Elements section describes key concepts that are needed to understand how  

to use the technique. 

**.4 Usage Considerations** 

The Usage Considerations section describes the conditions under which the  

technique may be more or less effective.

8   
Introduction Structure of the BABOK® Guide 

**1.4.6 Perspectives** 

Perspectives are used within business analysis work to provide focus to tasks and  techniques specific to the context of the initiative. Most initiatives are likely to    
engage one or more perspectives. The perspectives included in the *BABOK®* 

*Guide* are: 

• Agile 

• Business Intelligence 

• Information Technology 

• Business Architecture 

• Business Process Management 

Complimentary IIBA   
These perspectives do not presume to represent all the possible perspectives from  which business analysis is practiced. The perspectives discussed in the *BABOK®* 

*Guide* represent some of the more common views of business analysis at the time  of writing. 

Perspectives are not mutually exclusive, in that a given initiative might employ  

more than one perspective.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Perspectives have the following structure: 

• Change Scope 

• Business Analysis Scope 

• Methodologies, Approaches, and Techniques 

• Underlying Competencies 

• Impact on Knowledge Areas 

**.1 Change Scope** 

The Change Scope section describes what parts of the enterprise the change  

encompasses when viewed from this perspective and to what extent it impacts  both the objectives and operations of the enterprise. The change scope also  

identifies the type of problems solved, the nature of the solutions being sought,  and the approach to delivering these solutions and measuring their value. 

**.2 Business Analysis Scope** 

The Business Analysis Scope section describes the key stakeholders, including a  profile of the likely types of sponsors, the target stakeholders, and the business  analyst's role within an initiative. It also defines likely outcomes that would be  

expected from business analysis work in this perspective. 

**.3 Methodologies, Approaches, and Techniques** 

The composition of this section is unique to each perspective. In each case it  

describes the methodologies, approaches, or techniques that are common and  specific to the application of business analysis in the perspective. Methodologies 

9   
Structure of the BABOK® Guide Introduction 

and approaches are specialized ways of undertaking the business analysis work.  

The techniques included in this section are techniques that are not included in the    
Techniques chapter of the *BABOK® Guide* but are especially relevant to the  

perspective. 

In the Business Architecture perspective, reference models are listed instead of  

methodologies or approaches. In the Business Process Management perspective,  

frameworks are listed instead of approaches. 

**.4 Underlying Competencies** 

The Underlying Competencies section describes the competencies that are most  

prevalent in the perspective. 

**.5 Impact on Knowledge Areas** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The Impact on Knowledge Areas section describes how knowledge areas are  

applied or modified. It also explains how specific activities within a perspective are    
mapped to tasks in the *BABOK® Guide*.

Complimentary IIBA 

10   
**2 Business Analysis Key Concepts** Complimentary IIBA   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The Business Analysis Key Concepts chapter includes information that provides a  foundation for all other content, concepts, and ideas within the *BABOK® Guide*.  It provides business analysts with a basic understanding of the central ideas    
necessary for understanding and employing the *BABOK® Guide* in their daily  practice of business analysis. 

This chapter consists of: 

• **Business Analysis Core Concept Model™ (BACCM™)**: defines a  

conceptual framework for the business analysis profession. 

• **Key Terms**: provides definitions of essential concepts, which are    
highlighted because of their importance to the *BABOK® Guide*. 

• **Requirements Classification Schema**: identifies levels or types of  

requirements that assist the business analyst and other stakeholders in  

categorizing requirements. 

• **Stakeholders**: defines roles, and characteristics of groups or individuals  

participating in or affected by the business analysis activities within a  

change. 

• **Requirements and Designs**: describes the distinction between—and the  importance of—requirements and designs as they relate to business  

analysis.

11   
The Business Analysis Core Concept Model™ Business Analysis Key Concepts 

**2.1 The Business Analysis Core Concept Model™** 

The *Business Analysis Core Concept Model™* (*BACCM™*) is a conceptual  

framework for business analysis. It encompasses what business analysis is and  

what it means to those performing business analysis tasks regardless of  

perspective, industry, methodology, or level in the organization. It is composed of  

six terms that have a common meaning to all business analysts and helps them  

discuss both business analysis and its relationships with common terminology.  

Each of these terms is considered to be a core concept. 

The six core concepts in the *BACCM* are: Change, Need, Solution, Stakeholder,  

Value, and Context. Each core concept is an idea fundamental to the practice of  

business analysis, and all the concepts are equal and necessary. Each core concept  

is defined by the other five core concepts and cannot be fully understood until all  

the concepts are understood. No single concept holds greater importance or    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
significance over any other concept. These concepts are instrumental to  

understanding the type of information elicited, analyzed, or managed in business  

analysis tasks. 

The *BACCM* can be used to: 

• describe the profession and domain of business analysis, 

• communicate about business analysis with a common terminology, 

• evaluate the relationships of key concepts in business analysis, 

• perform better business analysis by holistically evaluating the relationships  

among these six concepts, and 

• evaluate the impact of these concepts and relationships at any point during  

a work effort in order to establish both a foundation and a path forward.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**Table 2.1.1: The BACCM**  

**Core Concept Description** 

Change The act of transformation in response to a need. 

Change works to improve the performance of an enterprise.  

These improvements are deliberate and controlled through  

business analysis activities. 

Need A problem or opportunity to be addressed. 

Needs can cause changes by motivating stakeholders to act.  

Changes can also cause needs by eroding or enhancing the  

value delivered by existing solutions. 

Solution A specific way of satisfying one or more needs in a context. 

A solution satisfies a need by resolving a problem faced by  

stakeholders or enabling stakeholders to take advantage of  

an opportunity.

12   
Business Analysis Key Concepts The Business Analysis Core Concept Model™ 

**Table 2.1.1: The BACCM (Continued)** 

**Core Concept Description**

Stakeholder A group or individual with a relationship to the change, the  need, or the solution. 

Stakeholders are often defined in terms of interest in, impact  

on, and influence over the change. Stakeholders are  

grouped based on their relationship to the needs, changes,  

and solutions. 

Value The worth, importance, or usefulness of something to a  stakeholder within a context. 

Value can be seen as potential or realized returns, gains, and    
Complimentary IIBA   
improvements. It is also possible to have a decrease in value  

in the form of losses, risks, and costs. 

Value can be tangible or intangible. Tangible value is directly  

measurable. Tangible value often has a significant monetary  

component. Intangible value is measured indirectly.  

Intangible value often has a significant motivational    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
component, such as a company's reputation or employee  

morale. 

In some cases, value can be assessed in absolute terms, but  

in many cases is assessed in relative terms: one solution  

option is more valuable than another from the perspective of  

a given set of stakeholders. 

Context The circumstances that influence, are influenced by, and  provide understanding of the change. 

Changes occur within a context. The context is everything  

relevant to the change that is within the environment.  

Context may include attitudes, behaviours, beliefs,  

competitors, culture, demographics, goals, governments,  

infrastructure, languages, losses, processes, products,  

projects, sales, seasons, terminology, technology, weather,  

and any other element meeting the definition. 

The core concepts can be used by business analysts to consider the quality and  completeness of the work being done. Within each knowledge area description  there are examples of how the core concepts may be used and/or applied during  the tasks within the knowledge area. While planning or performing a task or  technique, business analysts can consider how each core concept is addressed by  asking questions such as: 

• What are the kinds of *changes* we are doing? 

• What are the *needs* we are trying to satisfy? 

• What are the *solutions* we are creating or changing? 

13   
Key Terms Business Analysis Key Concepts 

• Who are the *stakeholders* involved? 

• What do stakeholders consider to be of *value*? 

• What are the *contexts* that we and the solution are in? 

If any of the core concepts experience a change, it should cause us to re-evaluate  

these core concepts and their relationships to value delivery. 

**Figure 2.1.1: The BACCM** 

**Changes**

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Needs Solutions** 

**Stakeholders Contexts** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**Value** 

**2.2 Key Terms** 

**Business Analysis** 

For more  

information, see  What is Business  Analysis? (p. 2).   
The *BABOK® Guide* describes and defines business analysis as the practice of  enabling change in an enterprise by defining needs and recommending solutions  that deliver value to stakeholders. 

**Business Analysis Information** 

Business analysis information refers to the broad and diverse sets of information  that business analysts analyze, transform, and report. It is information of any  

14   
Business Analysis Key Concepts Key Terms 

For more  

information, see  Requirements and  Designs (p. 19). 

For more  

information, see  Requirements and  Designs (p. 19).   
kind—at any level of detail—that is used as an input to, or is an output of,  business analysis work. Examples of business analysis information include  elicitation results, requirements, designs, solution options, solution scope, and  change strategy. 

It is essential to expand the object of many business analysis activities from  'requirements' to 'information' to ensure that all inputs and outputs of business  analysis are subject to the tasks and activities described in the *BABOK® Guide*. For  example, when performing 'Plan Business Analysis Information Management' it  includes all the examples listed above. If the *BABOK® Guide* described 'Plan  Requirements Management', it would exclude important outputs like elicitation  results, solution options, and change strategy. 

**Design** 

Complimentary IIBA   
A design is a usable representation of a solution. Design focuses on  understanding how value might be realized by a solution if it is built. The nature  of the representation may be a document (or set of documents) and can vary  widely depending on the circumstances. 

**Enterprise** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
An enterprise is a system of one or more organizations and the solutions they use  to pursue a shared set of common goals. These solutions (also referred to as  organizational capabilities) can be processes, tools or information. For the  purpose of business analysis, enterprise boundaries can be defined relative to the  change and need not be constrained by the boundaries of a legal entity,  organization, or organizational unit. An enterprise may include any number of  business, government, or any other type of organization. 

**Organization** 

An autonomous group of people under the management of a single individual or  board, that works towards common goals and objectives. Organizations often  have a clearly defined boundary and operate on a continuous basis, as opposed  to an initiative or project team, which may be disbanded once its objectives are  achieved. 

**Plan** 

A plan is a proposal for doing or achieving something. Plans describe a set of  events, the dependencies among the events, the expected sequence, the  schedule, the results or outcomes, the materials and resources needed, and the  stakeholders involved. 

**Requirement** 

A requirement is a usable representation of a need. Requirements focus on  understanding what kind of value could be delivered if a requirement is fulfilled.  The nature of the representation may be a document (or set of documents), but  can vary widely depending on the circumstances.

15   
Requirements Classification Schema Business Analysis Key Concepts 

**Risk** 

Risk is the effect of uncertainty on the value of a change, a solution, or the  

enterprise. Business analysts collaborate with other stakeholders to identify,  

assess, and prioritize risks, and to deal with those risks by altering the likelihood of  

the conditions or events that lead to the uncertainty: mitigating the  

consequences, removing the source of the risk, avoiding the risk altogether by  

deciding not to start or continue with an activity that leads to the risk, sharing the  

risk with other parties, or accepting or even increasing the risk to deal with an  

opportunity. 

**2.3 Requirements Classification Schema** 

For the purposes of the *BABOK® Guide*, the following classification schema    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
describes requirements: 

• **Business requirements**: statements of goals, objectives, and outcomes  

that describe why a change has been initiated. They can apply to the whole  

of an enterprise, a business area, or a specific initiative. 

• **Stakeholder requirements**: describe the needs of stakeholders that must  

be met in order to achieve the business requirements. They may serve as a  

bridge between business and solution requirements. 

• **Solution requirements**: describe the capabilities and qualities of a  

solution that meets the stakeholder requirements. They provide the  

appropriate level of detail to allow for the development and  

implementation of the solution. Solution requirements can be divided into  

two sub-categories: 

• **functional requirements**: describe the capabilities that a solution    
Complimentary IIBA   
must have in terms of the behaviour and information that the solution  

will manage, and 

For more  

information, see  Non-Functional  Requirements  Analysis (p. 302).   
• **non-functional requirements or quality of service requirements**:  do not relate directly to the behaviour of functionality of the solution,  but rather describe conditions under which a solution must remain  effective or qualities that a solution must have. 

• **Transition requirements**: describe the capabilities that the solution must  have and the conditions the solution must meet to facilitate transition from  the current state to the future state, but which are not needed once the  change is complete. They are differentiated from other requirements types  because they are of a temporary nature. Transition requirements address  topics such as data conversion, training, and business continuity. 

**2.4 Stakeholders** 

Each task includes a list of stakeholders who are likely to participate in the  

execution of that task or who will be affected by it. A stakeholder is an individual  or group that a business analyst is likely to interact with directly or indirectly. The 

16   
Business Analysis Key Concepts Stakeholders 

*BABOK® Guide* does not mandate that these roles be filled for any given  initiative. Any stakeholder can be a source of requirements, assumptions, or  constraints. 

This list is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible stakeholder  classifications. Some additional examples of people who fit into each of these  generic roles are listed in the definitions below. In most cases there will be  multiple stakeholder roles found within each category. Similarly, a single  individual may fill more than one role. 

For the purpose of the *BABOK® Guide*, the generic list of stakeholders includes  the following roles: 

• business analyst, 

• customer, 

• domain subject matter expert, 

• end user, 

• implementation subject matter  

expert, 

**2.4.1 Business Analyst**   
• operational support, • project manager, • regulator, 

• sponsor, 

• supplier, and 

• tester. 

Complimentary IIBA ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The business analyst is inherently a stakeholder in all business analysis activities.  The *BABOK® Guide* presumes that the business analyst is responsible and  

accountable for the execution of these activities. In some cases the business  analyst may also be responsible for performing activities that fall under another  stakeholder role. 

**2.4.2 Customer** 

A customer uses or may use products or services produced by the enterprise and  may have contractual or moral rights that the enterprise is obliged to meet. 

**2.4.3 Domain Subject Matter Expert** 

A domain subject matter expert is any individual with in-depth knowledge of a  topic relevant to the business need or solution scope. This role is often filled by  people who may be end users or people who have in-depth knowledge of the  solution such as managers, process owners, legal staff, consultants, and others. 

**2.4.4 End User** 

End users are stakeholders who directly interact with the solution. End users can  include all participants in a business process, or who use the product or solution. 

**2.4.5 Implementation Subject Matter Expert** 

An implementation subject matter expert is any stakeholder who has specialized  knowledge regarding the implementation of one or more solution components.

17   
Stakeholders Business Analysis Key Concepts 

While it is not possible to define a listing of implementation subject matter expert  

roles that are appropriate for all initiatives, some of the most common roles are:  

project librarian, change manager, configuration manager, solution architect,  

developer, database administrator, information architect, usability analyst, trainer,  

and organizational change consultant. 

**2.4.6 Operational Support** 

Operational support is responsible for the day-to-day management and  

maintenance of a system or product. 

While it is not possible to define a listing of operational support roles that are  

appropriate for all initiatives, some of the most common roles are: operations  

analyst, product analyst, help desk, and release manager. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**2.4.7 Project Manager** 

Project managers are responsible for managing the work required to deliver a  

solution that meets a business need, and for ensuring that the project's objectives  

are met while balancing the project factors including scope, budget, schedule,  

resources, quality, and risk. 

While it is not possible to completely define a listing of project management roles  

that are appropriate for all initiatives, some of the most common roles are: project  

lead, technical lead, product manager, and team leader. 

**2.4.8 Regulator** 

Regulators are responsible for the definition and enforcement of standards.    
Complimentary IIBA   
Standards can be imposed on the solution by regulators through legislation,  

corporate governance standards, audit standards, or standards defined by  

organizational centers of competency. Alternate roles are government, regulatory  

bodies, and auditor. 

**2.4.9 Sponsor** 

Sponsors are responsible for initiating the effort to define a business need and  

develop a solution that meets that need. They authorize the work to be  

performed, and control the budget and scope for the initiative. Alternate roles are  

executive and project sponsor. 

**2.4.10 Supplier** 

A supplier is a stakeholder outside the boundary of a given organization or  

organizational unit. Suppliers provide products or services to the organization and  

may have contractual or moral rights and obligations that must be considered.  

Alternate roles are providers, vendors, and consultants.

18   
Business Analysis Key Concepts Requirements and Designs 

**2.4.11 Tester** 

Testers are responsible for determining how to verify that the solution meets the  

requirements defined by the business analyst, as well as conducting the  

verification process. Testers also seek to ensure that the solution meets applicable  

quality standards, and that the risk of defects or failures is understood and  

minimized. An alternate role is quality assurance analyst. 

**2.5 Requirements and Designs** 

Eliciting, analyzing, validating, and managing requirements have consistently  

been recognized as key activities of business analysis. However, it is important to  

recognize that business analysts are also responsible for the definition of design,  

at some level, in an initiative. The level of responsibility for design varies based on    
Complimentary IIBA   
the perspective within which a business analyst is working. 

Requirements are focused on the need; designs are focused on the solution. The  

distinction between requirements and designs is not always clear. The same  

techniques are used to elicit, model, and analyze both. A requirement leads to a  

design which in turn may drive the discovery and analysis of more requirements.  

The shift in focus is often subtle.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The classification as a requirement or a design may become less significant as the  

business analyst's work progresses to a greater understanding of and eventual    
fulfillment of the need. The tasks in the *BABOK® Guide* such as Trace  

Requirements (p. 79\) or Specify and Model Requirements (p. 136\) may refer to  

requirements, but the intent is to include designs as well. 

Business analysis can be complex and recursive. A requirement (or set of  

requirements) may be used to define a design. That design may then be used to  

elicit additional requirements that are used to define more detailed designs. The  

business analyst may hand off requirements and designs to other stakeholders  

who may further elaborate on the designs. Whether it is the business analyst or  

some other role that completes the designs, the business analyst often reviews  

the final designs to ensure that they align with the requirements. 

The following table provides some basic examples of how information may be  

viewed as either a requirement or a design. 

**Table 2.5.1: Requirements and Design**  

**Requirement Design** 

View six months sales data across multiple  organizational units in a single view. 

Reduce amount of time required to pick  and pack a customer order. 

Record and access a medical patient’s  history.   
A sketch of a dashboard. 

Process model. 

Screen mock-up showing specific  data fields.

19   
Requirements and Designs Business Analysis Key Concepts 

**Table 2.5.1: Requirements and Design (Continued) Requirement Design**   
Develop business strategy, goals, and  objectives for a new business.   
Business Capability Model. 

Provide information in English and French. Prototype with text displayed in  

English and French. 

Stakeholders may present a need or a solution to an assumed need. A business  

analyst uses activities found in Elicitation and Collaboration (p. 53), Strategy  

Analysis (p. 99), Requirements Analysis and Design Definition (p. 133), and  

Solution Evaluation (p. 163\) to transform that request into a requirement or  

design. Regardless of the focus of the stakeholder, the importance of the role of  

the business analyst lies in continuously asking the question ‘why?’. For example,    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
“Why is either the requirement or design necessary to provide value to an  

enterprise and to facilitate the realization of an enterprise’s goals and objectives?” 

**Figure 2.5.1: Requirements and Design Cycle** 

**Business** 

**Requirements** 

**Assess Outcomes** 

**Design**   
Why do I want it? 

Complimentary IIBA 

**Transition** 

**Requirements** What are the   
conditions? 

**Design** 

Cycle continues until  requirements are met. 

**Solution** 

 **Requirements** What do I want? 

**Stakeholder** 

**Requirements** 

What are the needs? **Design**

20   
**3 Business Analysis Planning **   
**and Monitoring**   
Complimentary IIBA   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area tasks organize  and coordinate the efforts of business analysts and stakeholders. These tasks  produce outputs that are used as key guidelines for the other tasks throughout  the *BABOK® Guide*. 

The Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area includes the  following tasks: 

• **Plan Business Analysis Approach**: describes the planning of business  

analysis work from creation or selection of a methodology to planning the  

individual activities, tasks, and deliverables. 

• **Plan Stakeholder Engagement**: describes understanding which  

stakeholders are relevant to the change, what business analysts need from  

them, what they need from business analysts, and the best way to  

collaborate. 

• **Plan Business Analysis Governance**: defines the components of business  analysis that are used to support the governance function of the  

organization. It helps ensure that decisions are made properly and  

consistently, and follows a process that ensures decision makers have the  

information they need. Examples of this include requirements  

management, business analysis risk management, and allocation of  

business analysis resources. 

• **Plan Business Analysis Information Management**: defines how  

information developed by business analysts (including requirements and  

designs) is captured, stored, and integrated with other information for  

long-term use.

21   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

• **Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements**: describes  

managing and monitoring how business analysis work is performed to  

ensure that commitments are met and continuous learning and  

improvement opportunities are realized. 

**The Core Concept Model in Business Analysis**  

**Planning and Monitoring** 

The *Business Analysis Core Concept Model™* (*BACCM™*) describes the  

relationships among the six core concepts. The following table describes the  

usage and application of each of the core concepts within the context of Business  

Analysis Planning and Monitoring.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Table 3.0.1: The Core Concept Model in Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring**  

**Core Concept During Business Analysis Planning and**  

**Monitoring, business analysts...** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**Change**: the act of  

transformation in response to a  need. 

**Need**: a problem or opportunity  to be addressed. 

**Solution**: a specific way of  satisfying one or more needs in a  context. 

**Stakeholder**: a group or  individual with a relationship to  the change, the need, or the  solution. 

**Value**: the worth, importance, or  usefulness of something to a  stakeholder within a context. 

**Context**: the circumstances that  influence, are influenced by, and  provide understanding of the  change.   
are responsible for determining how  changes to business analysis results will  be requested and authorized. 

choose a business analysis approach that  provides adequate analysis for the  change. 

evaluate if business analysis performance  was a key contributor to the successful  implementation of a solution. 

perform a stakeholder analysis to ensure  planning and monitoring activities reflect  stakeholder needs and account for  stakeholder characteristics. 

conduct performance analysis to ensure  business analysis activities continue to  produce sufficient value for the  stakeholders. 

ensure a complete understanding of the  context under analysis in order to develop  an efficient business analysis approach.

22   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**Figure 3.0.1: Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Input/Output Diagram Input** 

Needs Performance    
Objectives (external) 

**Tasks** 

**3.1** 

**Plan Business**  

**Analysis Approach 3.4** 

**3.2** 

**Plan Stakeholder  Engagement** 

**3.5**   
**3.3** 

**Plan Business  Analysis**  

**Governance** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**Plan Business**    
**Analysis**    
**Information**    
**Management** 

**3.1**   
**Identify Business**    
**Analysis**    
**Performance**    
**Improvements** 

**Output**

**3.2** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Business Analysis  

Approach 

**3.4** 

Stakeholder  Engagement  Approach   
**3.3** 

Governance Approach **3.5**   
Information  Management  Approach   
Business Analysis  Performance  

Assessment 

23   
Plan Business Analysis Approach Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**3.1 Plan Business Analysis Approach** 

**3.1.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Plan Business Analysis Approach is to define an appropriate  

method to conduct business analysis activities. 

**3.1.2 Description** 

Business analysis approaches describe the overall method that will be followed  

when performing business analysis work on a given initiative, how and when  

tasks will be performed, and the deliverables that will be produced. 

The business analyst may also identify an initial set of techniques to use. This list    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
may change as the initiative proceeds and the business analyst gains a deeper  

understanding of the change and its stakeholders. 

The business analysis approach may be defined by a methodology or by  

organizational standards. In some organizations, elements of the business  

analysis approach may be standardized and formalized into a repeatable business  

analysis process which can be leveraged for each effort. Even where a standard  

approach exists, it may be tailored to the needs of a specific initiative. Tailoring  

may be governed by standards that define which approaches are permitted,  

which elements of those processes may be tailored, and general guidelines for  

selecting a process. 

If organizational standards do not exist, the business analyst works with the  

appropriate stakeholders to determine how the work will be completed. For  

example, if the change is delivered via a project, the standards and approach may  

be developed during the project planning phase.   
Complimentary IIBA   
The business analysis approach should: 

• align to the overall goals of the change, 

• coordinate the business analysis tasks with the activities and deliverables of  

the overall change, 

• include tasks to manage any risks that could reduce the quality of business  

analysis deliverables or impede task efficiency, and 

• leverage approaches and select techniques and tools that have historically  

worked well. 

**3.1.3 Inputs** 

**• Needs**: the business analysis approach is shaped by the problem or opportunity  

faced by the organization. It is necessary to consider what is known about the  

need at the time of planning, while acknowledging that understanding evolves  

throughout business analysis activities.

24   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Approach 

**Figure 3.1.1: Plan Business Analysis Approach Input/Output Diagram** 

**Input** 

**Guidelines and Tools** 

Business Analysis  

Performance Assessment Business Policies 

Expert Judgment 

Methodologies and  Frameworks 

Stakeholder Engagement  Approach 

**3.2** 

**Plan Stakeholder  Engagement** 

**3.5**   
**Identify Business**  

**Needs** 

**3.1 Plan Business Analysis  Approach** 

**Output** 

**3.1** 

**Business Analysis**  

**Approach** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

**3.3** 

**Plan Business**  

**Analysis**  

**Governance** 

**4.1** 

**3.4**   
**Plan Business  Analysis**    
**Information  Management** 

**4.2** 

Complimentary IIBA ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Analysis**    
**Performance**    
**Improvements** 

**4.4** 

**Communicate**  

**Business Analysis  Information** 

**6.4** 

**Prepare for  Elicitation** 

**4.5** 

**Manage**  

**Stakeholder  Collaboration** 

**Conduct Elicitation** 

**6.1** 

**Analyze Current**  

**State** 

**6.3**   
**Define Change  Strategy**

**Assess Risks** 

25   
Plan Business Analysis Approach Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**3.1.4 Elements** 

**.1 Planning Approach** 

There are various planning methods used across perspectives, industries, and  

enterprises. Many planning methods fit somewhere along a continuum between  

predictive and adaptive approaches. 

Predictive approaches focus on minimizing upfront uncertainty and ensuring that  

the solution is defined before implementation begins in order to maximize control  

and minimize risk. These approaches are often preferred in situations where  

requirements can effectively be defined ahead of implementation, the risk of an  

incorrect implementation is unacceptably high, or when engaging stakeholders  

presents significant challenges. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Adaptive approaches focus on rapid delivery of business value in short iterations  

in return for acceptance of a higher degree of uncertainty regarding the overall  

delivery of the solution. These approaches tend to be preferred when taking an  

exploratory approach to finding the best solution or for incremental improvement  

of an existing solution. 

Different approaches may be used within the same initiative. Among other  

factors, the business analyst may consider the organization’s standards, tolerance  

for uncertainty, and previous experience with different approaches when  

planning for business analysis activities. 

Regardless of the approach, planning is an essential task to ensure value is  

delivered to an enterprise. Planning typically occurs more than once on a given  

initiative as plans are updated to address changing business conditions and newly  

raised issues. The business analysis approach should describe how plans will be    
Complimentary IIBA   
altered if changes are required. 

**.2 Formality and Level of Detail of Business Analysis Deliverables** 

When defining the business analysis approach, consider the level of formality that  

is appropriate for approaching and planning the initiative. 

Predictive approaches typically call for formal documentation and  

representations. Business analysis information may be captured in a formal  

document or set of representations following standardized templates.  

Information is captured at various levels of detail. The specific content and format  

of business analysis information can vary depending on the organizational  

methodologies, processes, and templates in use. 

Adaptive approaches favour defining requirements and designs through team  

interaction and gathering feedback on a working solution. Mandatory  

requirements representations are often limited to a prioritized requirements list.  

Additional business analysis documentation may be created at the discretion of  

the team, and generally consists of models developed to enhance the team’s  

understanding of a specific problem. Formal documentation is often produced  

after the solution is implemented to facilitate knowledge transfer.

26   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Approach 

Other considerations that may affect the approach include: 

• the change is complex and high risk, 

• the organization is in, or interacts with, heavily regulated industries, • contracts or agreements necessitate formality, 

• stakeholders are geographically distributed, 

• resources are outsourced, 

• staff turnover is high and/or team members may be inexperienced, • requirements must be formally signed off, and 

• business analysis information must be maintained long-term or handed  over for use on future initiatives.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**Figure 3.1.2: Formality and Level of Detail of Business Analysis Deliverables Approach**

**Solution  Definition** 

**Level of  Formality** 

**Activities Timing**   
**Predictive**  

Defined before  

implementation to maximize  control and minimize risk. 

Formal—information is  captured in standardized  templates. 

Activities required to  

complete deliverables are  identified first and then  divided into tasks. 

Tasks are performed in  specific phases.   
**Adaptive** 

Defined in iterations to  arrive at best solution or  improve an existing solution. 

Informal—information is  gathered through team  interaction and feedback. 

Activities are divided into  iterations with deliverables  first and then the associated  tasks are identified. 

Tasks are performed  

iteratively. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale. 

**.3 Business Analysis Activities** 

A business analysis approach provides a description of the types of activities that  the business analyst will perform. Frequently the organization’s adopted  methodologies influence the activities that are selected. 

Integrating business analysis activities in the business analysis approach includes: 

• identifying the activities required to complete each deliverable and then  breaking each activity into tasks, 

• dividing the work into iterations, identifying the deliverables for each  iteration, and then identifying the associated activities and tasks, or 

27   
Plan Business Analysis Approach Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

• using a previous similar initiative as an outline and applying the detailed  

tasks and activities unique to the current initiative. 

**.4 Timing of Business Analysis Work** 

Business analysts determine when the business analysis tasks need to be  

performed and if the level of business analysis effort will need to vary over time.  

This type of planning includes determining whether the business analysis tasks  

performed within the other knowledge areas will be performed primarily in  

specific phases or iteratively over the course of the initiative. 

The timing of business analysis activities can also be affected by: 

• the availability of resources, 

• priority and/or urgency of the initiative,   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• other concurrent initiatives, or 

• constraints such as contract terms or regulatory deadlines. 

**.5 Complexity and Risk** 

The complexity and size of the change and the overall risk of the effort to the  

organization are considered when determining the business analysis approach. As  

complexity and risk increase or decrease, the nature and scope of business  

analysis work can be altered and reflected in the approach. 

The approach may also be altered based on the number of stakeholders or  

business analysis resources involved in the initiative. As the number of  

stakeholders increases, the approach may be adjusted to include additional  

process steps to better manage the business analysis work. 

Complimentary IIBA   
Other factors that can impact complexity include: 

• size of the change, 

• number of business areas or systems affected, 

• geographic and cultural considerations, 

• technological complexities, and 

• any risks that could impede the business analysis effort. 

Factors that can impact the risk level of a business analysis effort include: 

• experience level of the business analyst, 

• extent of domain knowledge held by the business analyst, 

• level of experience stakeholders have in communicating their needs, 

• stakeholder attitudes about the change and business analysis in general, 

• amount of time allocated by stakeholders to the business analysis activities, 

• any pre-selected framework, methodology, tools, and/or techniques 

28   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Approach 

imposed by organizational policies and practices, and 

• cultural norms of the organization. 

**.6 Acceptance** 

The business analysis approach is reviewed and agreed upon by key stakeholders.  In some organizations, the business analysis process may be more structured and  require key stakeholders to sign off on the approach to ensure all business  

analysis activities have been identified, estimates are realistic, and the proposed  roles and responsibilities are correct. Any issues raised by stakeholders when  

reviewing the approach are documented by the business analyst and resolutions  are sought. Stakeholders also play a role in reviewing and accepting changes to  the approach as alterations are made to accommodate changing conditions  

across the initiative.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**3.1.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Performance Assessment**: provides results of previous  

assessments that should be reviewed and incorporated into all planning  

approaches.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Business Policies**: define the limits within which decisions must be made. They  may be described by regulations, contracts, agreements, deals, warranties,  

certifications, or other legal obligations. These policies can influence the  

business analysis approach. 

**• Expert Judgment**: used to determine the optimal business analysis approach.  Expertise may be provided from a wide range of sources including stakeholders  

on the initiative, organizational Centres of Excellence, consultants, or  

associations and industry groups. Prior experiences of the business analyst and  

other stakeholders should be considered when selecting or modifying an  

approach. 

**• Methodologies and Frameworks**: shape the approach that will be used by  providing methods, techniques, procedures, working concepts, and rules. They  

may need to be tailored to better meet the needs of the specific business  

challenge. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: understanding the stakeholders and  

their concerns and interests may influence decisions made when determining  

the business analysis approach. 

**3.1.6 Techniques** 

**• Brainstorming**: used to identify possible business analysis activities,  

techniques, risks and other relevant items to help build the business analysis  

approach. 

**• Business Cases**: used to understand whether elements of the problem or  

opportunity are especially time-sensitive, high-value, or whether there is any  

particular uncertainty around elements of the possible need or solution.

29   
Plan Business Analysis Approach Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**• Document Analysis**: used to review existing organizational assets that might  

assist in planning the approach. 

**• Estimation**: used to determine how long it may take to perform business  

analysis activities. 

**• Financial Analysis**: used to assess how different approaches (and the  

supported delivery options) affect the value delivered. 

**• Functional Decomposition**: used to break down complex business analysis  

processes or approaches into more feasible components. 

**• Interviews**: used to help build the plan with an individual or small group. 

**• Item Tracking**: used to track any issues raised during planning activities with  

stakeholders. Can also track risk related items raised during discussions when  

building the approach.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Lessons Learned**: used to identify an enterprise’s previous experience (both  

successes and challenges) with planning business analysis approach. 

**• Process Modelling**: used to define and document the business analysis  

approach. 

**• Reviews**: used to validate the selected business analysis approach with  

stakeholders. 

**• Risk Analysis and Management**: used to assess risks in order to select the  

proper business analysis approach. 

**• Scope Modelling**: used to determine the boundaries of the solution as an  

input to planning and to estimating. 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to identify possible business analysis activities,  

techniques, risks and other relevant items to help build the business analysis    
Complimentary IIBA   
approach. 

**• Workshops**: used to help build the plan in a team setting. 

**3.1.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: can be a source of risk when their  

involvement is required and availability is lacking. The approach taken may  

depend on availability and level of their involvement with the initiative. 

**• Project Manager**: determines that the approach is realistic for the overall  

schedule and timelines. The business analysis approach must be compatible  

with other activities. 

**• Regulator**: may be needed to provide approval for aspects of the business  

analysis approach or decisions made in tailoring the process, especially in  

organizations where the business analysis process is audited. 

**• Sponsor**: can provide needs and objectives for the approach and ensures that  

organizational policies are followed. The selected approach may depend on  

availability and involvement with the initiative.

30   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Stakeholder Engagement 

**3.1.8 Outputs** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: identifies the business analysis approach and  

activities that will be performed across an initiative including who will perform  

the activities, the timing and sequencing of the work, the deliverables that will  

be produced and the business analysis techniques that may be utilized. The  

remaining outputs of the Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge  

area may be integrated into an overall approach or be independent based upon  

methodology, organization, and perspective. 

**3.2 Plan Stakeholder Engagement** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**3.2.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Plan Stakeholder Engagement is to plan an approach for  

establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with the  

stakeholders. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**3.2.2 Description** 

Plan Stakeholder Engagement involves conducting a thorough stakeholder  

analysis to identify all of the involved stakeholders and analyze their  

characteristics. The results of the analysis are then utilized to define the best  

collaboration and communication approaches for the initiative and to  

appropriately plan for stakeholder risks. 

When planning for stakeholder engagement, the degree of complexity can  

increase disproportionately as the number of stakeholders involved in the  

business analysis activities increases. This is important because new or different  

techniques for the management of stakeholders may be required when the  

engagement moves from collaborating with a few stakeholders into dozens,  

hundreds, or even thousands of people. 

**3.2.3 Inputs** 

**• Needs**: understanding the business need and the parts of the enterprise that it  

affects helps in the identification of stakeholders. The need may evolve as  

stakeholder analysis is performed. 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: incorporating the overall business analysis  

approach into the stakeholder analysis, collaboration, and communication  

approaches is necessary to ensure consistency across the approaches.

31   
Plan Stakeholder Engagement Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**Figure 3.2.1: Plan Stakeholder Engagement Input/Output Diagram Input** 

**3.1** 

**Guidelines and Tools**

Business Analysis  

Performance Assessment 

**Needs**   
**Business Analysis Approach** 

Change Strategy 

Current State Description 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale. 

**3.4**   
**3.1**   
**3.2 Plan Stakeholder  Engagement** 

**Output** 

**3.2** 

**Stakeholder**  

**Engagement**  

**Approach** 

**Tasks Using This Output 3.3** 

Complimentary IIBA 

**3.2.4 Elements** 

**Plan Business  Analysis Approach** 

**4.1** 

**Prepare for** 

**Elicitation** 

**4.5** 

**Manage**  

**Stakeholder**  

**Collaboration**   
**Plan Business**  

**Analysis**  

**Governance** 

**4.2** 

**Conduct Elicitation** 

**6.3** 

**Assess Risks**   
**Plan Business  Analysis**    
**Information**    
**Management** 

**4.4** 

**Communicate  Business Analysis  Information** 

**6.4** 

**Define Change  Strategy** 

**.1 Perform Stakeholder Analysis** 

Stakeholder analysis involves identifying the stakeholders (who will be directly or  indirectly impacted by the change) and their characteristics, as well as analyzing  the information once collected. Stakeholder analysis is performed repeatedly as  business analysis activities continue. 

A thorough and detailed stakeholder list ensures that stakeholders are not  overlooked. Understanding who the stakeholders are, the impact of proposed  changes on them, and the influence they may have on the change is vital to  understanding what needs, wants, and expectations must be satisfied by a  

32   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Stakeholder Engagement 

solution. If stakeholders are not identified, the business analyst may miss  uncovering critical needs. Stakeholder needs uncovered late will often require a  revision to business analysis tasks that are either in progress or are completed.  This can result in increased costs and decreased stakeholder satisfaction. 

How business analysts perform stakeholder analysis can vary between projects,  methodologies, and organizations. A company’s organizational chart and  business processes can serve as an initial source for identifying internal  stakeholders. The sponsor may also identify stakeholders. Stakeholders outside  the organization may be identified and can be uncovered by understanding any  existing contracts that may be in place, anticipated vendors that may have a role  based on existing relationships with the organization, as well as regulatory and  governing bodies that may influence the work. Shareholders, customers, and  suppliers are also considered when searching for external stakeholders. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**Roles** 

Business analysts identify stakeholder roles in order to understand where and  how the stakeholders will contribute to the initiative. It is important that the  business analyst is aware of the various roles a stakeholder is responsible for  within the organization. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Attitudes** 

Stakeholder attitudes can positively or negatively impact a change. Business  analysts identify stakeholder attitudes in order to fully understand what may  impact a stakeholder’s actions and behaviours. Knowing how a stakeholder  

perceives the initiative allows an opportunity for the business analyst to  specifically plan their collaboration and engagement with that stakeholder. 

Business analysts analyze stakeholder attitudes about: 

• business goals, objectives of the initiative, and any proposed solutions, • business analysis in general, 

• the level of interest in the change, 

• the sponsor, 

• team members and other stakeholders, and 

• collaboration and a team-based approach. 

Stakeholders with positive attitudes may be strong champions and great  contributors. Other stakeholders may not see value in the work, may  misunderstand the value being provided, or may be concerned about the effect  the change will have on them. Stakeholders who are expected to serve in key  roles and participate heavily in business analysis activities, but who view a change  negatively, may require collaboration approaches that increase their cooperation. 

**Decision Making Authority** 

Business analysts identify the authority level a stakeholder possesses over business  analysis activities, deliverables, and changes to business analysis work. 

33   
Plan Stakeholder Engagement Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

Understanding authority levels upfront eliminates confusion during the business  

analysis effort and ensures the business analyst collaborates with the proper  

stakeholders when looking for a decision to be made or seeking approvals. 

**Level of Power or Influence** 

Understanding the nature of influence and the influence structures and channels  

within an organization can prove invaluable when seeking to build relationships  

and trust. Understanding the influence and attitude each stakeholder may have  

can help develop strategies for obtaining buy-in and collaboration. Business  

analysts evaluate how much influence is needed to implement a change  

compared to the amount of influence the key stakeholders can bring. If there is a  

mismatch between the influence required and the amount of influence the  

stakeholder has or is perceived to have, business analysts develop risk plans,  

responses and other strategies that might be needed to obtain the required level    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
of support. 

**.2 Define Stakeholder Collaboration** 

Ensuring effective collaboration with stakeholders is essential for maintaining  

their engagement in business analysis activities. Collaboration can be a  

spontaneous event. However, much collaboration is deliberate and planned, with  

specific activities and outcomes determined ahead of time during planning  

activities. 

The business analyst may plan different collaboration approaches for internal and  

external stakeholders, and approaches may differ by business analysis activity. The  

objective is to select the approaches that work best to meet the needs of each  

stakeholder group and ensure their interest and involvement is maintained across  

the initiative. Some considerations when planning collaboration include: 

Complimentary IIBA   
• timing and frequency of collaboration, 

• location, 

• available tools such as wikis and online communities, 

• delivery method such as in-person or virtual, and 

• preferences of the stakeholders. 

Planning considerations can be documented in the form of a stakeholder  

collaboration plan. As factors change, plans can be revisited, and adjustments  

and adaptations can be made to ensure ongoing engagement of stakeholders. 

**.3 Stakeholder Communication Needs** 

The business analyst evaluates: 

• what needs to be communicated, 

• what is the appropriate delivery method (written or verbal), 

• who the appropriate audience is, 

• when communication should occur, 

• frequency of communication,

34   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Stakeholder Engagement 

• geographic location of stakeholders who will receive communications, 

• level of detail appropriate for the communication and stakeholder, and 

• level of formality of communications. 

Communication considerations can be documented in the form of a stakeholder  communication plan. Business analysts build and review communication plans  

with stakeholders to ensure their communication requirements and expectations  are met. 

**3.2.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Performance Assessment**: provides results of previous  

assessments that should be reviewed and incorporated. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**• Change Strategy**: used for improved assessment of stakeholder impact and  the development of more effective stakeholder engagement strategies. 

**• Current State Description**: provides the context within which the work needs  to be completed. This information will lead to more effective stakeholder  

analysis and better understanding of the impact of the desired change. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**3.2.6 Techniques** 

**• Brainstorming**: used to produce the stakeholder list and identify stakeholder  roles and responsibilities. 

**• Business Rules Analysis**: used to identify stakeholders who were the source  of the business rules. 

**• Document Analysis**: used to review existing organizational assets that might  assist in planning stakeholder engagement. 

**• Interviews**: used to interact with specific stakeholders to gain more  

information or knowledge about stakeholder groups. 

**• Lessons Learned**: used to identify an enterprise’s previous experience (both  

successes and challenges) with planning stakeholder engagement. 

**• Mind Mapping**: used to identify potential stakeholders and help understand  the relationships between them. 

**• Organizational Modelling**: used to determine if the organizational units or  people listed have any unique needs and interests that should be considered.  

Organizational models describe the roles and functions in the organization and  the ways in which stakeholders interact which can help to identify stakeholders  who will be affected by a change. 

**• Process Modelling**: used to categorize stakeholders by the systems that  

support their business processes. 

**• Risk Analysis and Management**: used to identify risks to the initiative  

resulting from stakeholder attitudes or the inability of key stakeholders to  

participate in the initiative.

35   
Plan Stakeholder Engagement Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**• Scope Modelling**: used to develop scope models to show stakeholders that  

fall outside the scope of the solution but still interact with it in some way. 

**• Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas**: used to depict the relationship of  

stakeholders to the solution and to one another. 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to identify shared characteristics of a  

stakeholder group. 

**• Workshops**: used to interact with groups of stakeholders to gain more  

information about stakeholder groups. 

**3.2.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Customers**: a source of external stakeholders. 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: may help to identify stakeholders and may    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
themselves be identified to fulfill one or more roles on the initiative. 

**• End User**: a source of internal stakeholders. 

**• Project Manager**: may be able to identify and recommend stakeholders.  

Responsibility for stakeholder identification and management may be shared  

with the business analyst. 

**• Regulator**: may require that specific stakeholder representatives or groups be  

involved in the business analysis activities. 

**• Sponsor**: may request that specific stakeholders be involved in the business  

analysis activities. 

**• Supplier**: a source of external stakeholders. 

**3.2.8 Outputs**   
Complimentary IIBA   
**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: contains a list of the stakeholders,  

their characteristics which were analyzed, and a listing of roles and  

responsibilities for the change. It also identifies the collaboration and  

communication approaches the business analyst will utilize during the initiative.

36   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Governance 

**3.3 Plan Business Analysis Governance** 

**3.3.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Plan Business Analysis Governance is to define how decisions are  

made about requirements and designs, including reviews, change control,  

approvals, and prioritization. 

**3.3.2 Description** 

Business analysts ensure that a governance process is in place and clarify any  

ambiguities within it. A governance process identifies the decision makers,  

process, and information required for decisions to be made. A governance  

process describes how approvals and prioritization decisions are made for    
Complimentary IIBA   
requirements and designs. 

When planning the governance approach, business analysts identify: 

• how business analysis work will be approached and prioritized, 

• what the process for proposing a change to business analysis information is, 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• who has the authority and responsibility to propose changes and who  

should be involved in the change discussions, 

• who has responsibility for analyzing change requests, 

• who has the authority to approve changes, and 

• how changes will be documented and communicated. 

**3.3.3 Inputs** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: incorporating the overall business analysis  

approach into the governance approach is necessary to ensure consistency  

across the approaches. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: identifying stakeholders and  

understanding their communication and collaboration needs is useful in  

determining their participation in the governance approach. The engagement  

approach may be updated based on the completion of the governance  

approach.

37   
Plan Business Analysis Governance Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**Figure 3.3.1: Plan Business Analysis Governance Input/Output Diagram Input** 

**Guidelines and Tools** 

Business Analysis  

Performance Assessment   
**3.1** 

**Business Analysis Approach**   
**3.2 Stakeholder  Engagement  Approach** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Business Policies 

Current State Description 

Legal/Regulatory  

Information

**3.3 Plan Business Analysis  Governance** 

**Output** 

**3.3** 

**Governance** 

**Approach** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**3.3.4 Elements** 

**.1 Decision Making**   
**3.4**   
**Plan Business  Analysis**    
**Information  Management** 

**5.4** 

**Assess**  

**Requirements  Changes**   
**5.3** 

**Prioritize**  

**Requirements** 

**5.5** 

**Approve**  

**Requirements** 

Decisions are made throughout the initiative. A stakeholder may serve in various  roles in the decision-making process such as: 

• participant in decision-making discussions, 

• subject matter expert (SME) lending experience and knowledge to the  decision-making process, 

• reviewer of information, and 

• approver of decisions. 

The decision-making process defines what happens when teams cannot reach  consensus, by identifying escalation paths and key stakeholders who hold final  decision-making authority. 

38   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Governance 

**.2 Change Control Process** 

When business analysts develop a change control process, they: 

• **Determine the process for requesting changes**: specify which  requirements and designs the change control process covers and determine  whether it applies to all changes or only to changes of a specific size, cost,  or level of effort. This process details the steps for proposing a change,  when changes can be proposed, who can propose changes and how  change requests are communicated. 

• **Determine the elements of the change request**: identify the  information to be included in a proposal to support decision making and  implementation if it is approved. 

Possible components to consider on a change request are: 

Complimentary IIBA   
• **Cost and time estimates**: for each area affected by the proposed  change, the expected cost of change is estimated. 

• **Benefits**: an explanation of how the change aligns with the initiative  and business objectives to show how the change adds value. Benefits  considered include both financial benefits and tactical benefits such as  implications to scope, time, cost, quality, and resources.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• **Risks**: an analysis of risks to the initiative, the solution, or business  objectives. 

• **Priority**: the level of importance of the change relative to other factors  such as organizational objectives, regulatory compliance requirements,  and stakeholder needs. 

• **Course(s) of action**: the course of action for the change includes an  assessment of the components of the change request (cost, time,  benefits, risks and priority). It is common to identify several alternative  courses, including those recommended by the requester and by other  stakeholders so decision makers can make a choice that will best serve  the needs of the initiative. 

• **Determine how changes will be prioritized**: the priority of the proposed  change is established relative to other competing interests within the  current initiative. 

• **Determine how changes will be documented**: configuration  management and traceability standards establish product baselines and  version control practices that identify which baseline is affected by the  change. 

• **Determine how changes will be communicated**: how proposed  changes, changes under review, and approved, declined, or deferred  changes will be communicated to stakeholders. 

• **Determine who will perform the impact analysis**: specify who is  responsible for performing an analysis of the impacts the proposed change  will have across the initiative.

39   
Plan Business Analysis Governance Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

For more  

information, see  

Prioritize  

Requirements  

(p. 86). 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Complimentary IIBA   
• **Determine who will authorize changes**: include a designation of who  can approve changes and what business analysis information their authority  covers. 

**.3 Plan Prioritization Approach** 

Timelines, expected value, dependencies, resource constraints, adopted  methodologies, and other factors influence how requirements and designs are  prioritized. 

When planning the prioritization process, business analysts determine the: • formality and rigour of the prioritization process, 

• participants who will be involved in prioritization, 

• process for deciding how prioritization will occur, including which  prioritization techniques will be utilized, and 

• criteria to be used for prioritization. For example, requirements may be  prioritized based on cost, risk, and value. 

The approach should also determine which stakeholders will have a role in  prioritization. 

**.4 Plan for Approvals** 

An approval formalizes the agreement between all stakeholders that the content  and presentation of the requirements and designs are accurate, adequate, and  contain sufficient detail to allow for continued progress to be made. 

The timing and frequency of approvals are dependent on the size and complexity  of the change and associated risks of foregoing or delaying an approval. 

The business analyst must determine the type of requirements and designs to be  approved, the timing for the approvals, the process to follow to gain approval,  and who will approve the requirements and designs. 

When planning the appropriate approval process, business analysts consider the  organizational culture and the type of information being approved. For example,  new systems or processes for highly regulated industries such as financial,  pharmaceutical, or healthcare are likely to require frequent and rigorous review  and approval of very detailed specifications. For other types of initiatives, a less  intensive approval process may be more appropriate and result in a faster  implementation. 

Planning for approvals also includes the schedule of events where approvals will  occur and how they will be tracked. Stakeholder availability, attitude, and  willingness to engage determine the efficiency of the approval process and may  significantly affect delivery timelines. 

**3.3.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Performance Assessment**: provides results of previous  assessments that should be reviewed and incorporated into all planning  

approaches.

40   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Governance 

**• Business Policies**: define the limits within which decisions must be made. They  may be described by regulations, contracts, agreements, warranties,  

certifications or other legal obligations. 

**• Current State Description**: provides the context within which the work needs  to be completed. This information can help drive how to make better decisions. 

**• Legal/Regulatory Information**: describes legislative rules or regulations that  must be followed, and can be used to help develop a framework that ensures  

sound business decision making. 

**3.3.6 Techniques** 

**• Brainstorming**: used to generate an initial list of potential stakeholder names  who may need approval roles in the defined governance process.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**• Document Analysis**: used to evaluate existing governance processes or  

templates. 

**• Interviews**: used to identify possible decision-making, change control,  

approval, or prioritization approaches and participants with an individual or  

small group. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Item Tracking**: used to track any issues that arise when planning a governance  approach. 

**• Lessons Learned**: used to find if past initiatives have identified valuable  

experiences with governance that can be leveraged on current or future  

initiatives. 

**• Organizational Modelling**: used to understand roles/responsibilities within  

the organization in an effort to define a governance approach that involves the  right stakeholders. 

**• Process Modelling**: used to document the process or method for governing  business analysis. 

**• Reviews**: used to review the proposed governance plan with key stakeholders. 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to identify possible decision-making, change  control, approval, or prioritization approaches and participants. 

**• Workshops**: used to identify possible decision-making, change control,  

approval, or prioritization approaches and participants within a team setting. 

**3.3.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: may be a possible source of a requested  

change or may be identified as needing to be involved in change discussions. 

**• Project Manager**: works with the business analyst to ensure that overall  

project governance aligns with the business analysis governance approach. 

**• Regulator**: may impose rules or regulations that need to be considered when  determining the business analysis governance plan. May also be a possible  

source of a requested change.

41   
Plan Business Analysis Information Management Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**• Sponsor**: can impose their own requirements for how business analysis  

information should be managed. Participates in change discussions and  

approves proposed changes. 

**3.3.8 Outputs** 

**• Governance Approach**: identifies the stakeholders who will have the  

responsibility and authority to make decisions about business analysis work  

including who will be responsible for setting priorities and who will approve  

changes to business analysis information. It also defines the process that will be  

utilized to manage requirement and design changes across the initiative. 

**3.4 Plan Business Analysis Information Management** ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**3.4.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Plan Business Analysis Information Management is to develop an  

approach for how business analysis information will be stored and accessed. 

**3.4.2 Description** 

Business analysis information is comprised of all the information business analysts  

elicit, create, compile, and disseminate in the course of performing business  

analysis. Models, scope statements, stakeholder concerns, elicitation results,  

requirements, designs, and solution options are just a few examples. This includes  

requirements and designs, from lightweight user stories to formal requirement  

documents to functioning prototypes. 

Complimentary IIBA   
Information management entails identifying: 

• how information should be organized, 

• the level of detail at which information should be captured, 

• any relationships between the information, 

• how information may be used across multiple initiatives and throughout the  

enterprise, 

• how information should be accessed and stored, and 

• characteristics about the information that must be maintained. 

Information management helps ensure that business analysis information is  

organized in a functional and useful manner, is easily accessible to appropriate  

personnel, and is stored for the necessary length of time. 

**3.4.3 Inputs** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: incorporating the overall business analysis  

approach into the information management approach is necessary to ensure  

consistency across the approaches.

42   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Information Management 

**• Governance Approach**: defines how business analysts manage changes to  requirements and designs, how decisions and approvals for business analysis  deliverables will be made, and how priorities will be set. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: identifying stakeholders and  understanding their communication and collaboration needs is useful in  determining their specific information management needs. 

**Figure 3.4.1: Plan Business Analysis Information Management Input/Output Diagram** 

**Input** 

**Guidelines and Tools** 

Business Analysis  

Performance Assessment 

Business Policies 

Information Management  

Tools 

Legal/Regulatory  

Information

**3.4.4 Elements** 

**3.1**  

**Business Analysis  Approach** 

**4.4** 

**Communicate  Business Analysis  Information**    
**3.2**  

**Stakeholder**  

**Engagement**  

**Approach** 

**3.4 Plan Business Analysis  Information Management** 

**Output** 

**3.4** 

**Information**  

**Management** 

**Approach** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

**5.1** 

**Trace**  

**Requirements** 

**7.4** 

**Define**  

**Requirements**  

**Architecture** 

**3.3**  

**Governance  Approach** 

**5.2** 

**Maintain**  

**Requirements**  

Complimentary IIBA ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale. 

**.1 Organization of Business Analysis Information** 

Business analysts are responsible for organizing business analysis information in a  manner that allows for efficient access and use. Information must be well  structured to ensure it is not difficult to locate, conflicts with other information, or  is needlessly duplicated. 

43   
Plan Business Analysis Information Management Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale. Complimentary IIBA   
For more  

information, see  Trace  

Requirements  (p. 79).   
The business analyst determines how best to structure and organize the business  analysis information at the start of an initiative. This involves taking into  consideration the type and amount of information to be collected, the  stakeholder's access and usage needs, and the size and complexity of the change.  Relationships among the types of information must be defined to assist in  managing the effect of new or changed information in the future. 

**.2 Level of Abstraction** 

Level of abstraction describes the breadth and depth of the information being  provided. Representations of information may range from highly conceptual or  summarized to very detailed. In determining how much detail each stakeholder  may require as the initiative evolves, consideration is given to the needs of the  stakeholders, the complexity of what is being explained, and the importance of  the change. Rather than present the same information to all stakeholders,  business analysts should present information with appropriate breadth and level  of detail based on each stakeholder's role. Business analysis information  regarding a topic of significant importance or high level of risk is frequently  represented in greater detail. 

**.3 Plan Traceability Approach** 

The traceability approach is based on: 

• the complexity of the domain, 

• the number of views of requirements that will be produced, 

• any requirement-related risks, organizational standards, applicable  regulatory requirements, and 

• an understanding of the costs and benefits involved with tracing. 

Business analysts plan to ensure the approach is at a level of detail to add value  without excessive overhead. 

**.4 Plan for Requirements Reuse** 

Reusing requirements can save an organization time, effort, and cost—provided  the requirements are accessible and structured in a manner that supports their  reuse. 

Requirements that are potential candidates for long-term use are those an  organization must meet on an ongoing basis such as: 

• regulatory requirements, 

• contractual obligations, 

• quality standards, 

• service level agreements, 

• business rules, 

• business processes, or 

• requirements describing products the enterprise produces.

44   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Plan Business Analysis Information Management 

Requirements may also be reused when describing common features or services  that are used across multiple systems, processes, or programs. 

To make requirements useful beyond the current change, business analysts plan  ahead for requirements reuse by identifying how best to structure, store, and  access requirements so they are usable and accessible for future business analysis  efforts. 

In order for requirements to be reused they must be clearly named, defined, and  stored in a repository that is available to other business analysts. 

**.5 Storage and Access** 

Business analysis information can be stored in many ways. Storage decisions  depend on many factors such as who must access the information, how often  they need to access it, and what conditions must be present for access.    
Complimentary IIBA   
Organizational standards and tool availability also influence storage and access  decisions. The business analysis approach defines how various tools will be used  on the initiative and how the information will be captured and stored within  those tools. Tools may shape the selection of business analysis techniques,  notations to be used, and the way that information is organized. 

The repository may need to store information other than requirements and  ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
designs. It should be able to indicate the status of any stored information, and  allow for modification of that information over time. 

**.6 Requirements Attributes** 

Requirements attributes provide information about requirements, and aid in the  ongoing management of the requirements throughout the change. They are  planned for and determined with the requirements themselves. 

Requirements attributes allow business analysts to associate information with  individual or related groups of requirements. The information documented by the  attributes helps the team efficiently and effectively make trade-offs between  requirements, identify stakeholders affected by potential changes, and  understand the effect of a proposed change. 

Some commonly used requirements attributes include: 

• **Absolute reference**: provides a unique identifier. The reference is not  altered or reused if the requirement is moved, changed, or deleted. 

• **Author**: provides the name of the person who needs to be consulted  should the requirement later be found to be ambiguous, unclear, or in  conflict. 

• **Complexity**: indicates how difficult the requirement will be to implement. 

• **Ownership**: indicates the individual or group that needs the requirement  or will be the business owner after the solution is implemented. 

• **Priority**: indicates relative importance of requirements. Priority can refer to  the relative value of a requirement or to the sequence in which it will be  implemented.

45   
Plan Business Analysis Information Management Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

• **Risks**: identifies uncertain events that may impact requirements. 

• **Source**: identifies the origin of the requirement. The source is often  

consulted if the requirement changes or if more information regarding the  

requirement or the need that drove the requirement has to be obtained. 

• **Stability**: indicates the maturity of the requirement. 

• **Status**: indicates the state of the requirement, whether it is proposed,  

accepted, verified, postponed, cancelled, or implemented. 

• **Urgency**: indicates how soon the requirement is needed. It is usually only  

necessary to specify this separately from the priority when a deadline exists  

for implementation. 

**3.4.5 Guidelines and Tools**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Business Analysis Performance Assessment**: provides results of previous  

assessments that should be reviewed and incorporated into all planning  

approaches. 

**• Business Policies**: define the limits within which decisions must be made. They  

may be described by regulations, contracts, agreements, warranties,  

certifications, or other legal obligations. 

**• Information Management Tools**: each organization uses some tools to store,  

retrieve, and share business analysis information. These may be as simple as a  

whiteboard, or as complex as a global wiki or robust requirements management  

tool. 

**• Legal/Regulatory Information**: describes legislative rules or regulations that  

must be followed, and helps determine how business analysis information will    
Complimentary IIBA   
be managed. 

**3.4.6 Techniques** 

**• Brainstorming**: used to help stakeholders uncover their business analysis  

information management needs. 

**• Interviews**: used to help specific stakeholders uncover their business analysis  

information management needs. 

**• Item Tracking**: used to track issues with current information management  

processes. 

**• Lessons Learned**: used to create a source of information for analyzing  

approaches for efficiently managing business analysis information. 

**• Mind Mapping**: used to identify and categorize the kinds of information that  

need to be managed. 

**• Process Modelling**: used to document the process or method for managing  

business analysis information.

46   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to ask stakeholders to provide input into  

defining business analysis information management. 

**• Workshops**: used to uncover business analysis information management needs  

in a group setting. 

**3.4.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: may need to access and work with business  

analysis information, and will be interested in a more specific view of business  

analysis information which relates to their area of expertise. 

**• Regulator**: may define rules and processes related to information  

management. 

**• Sponsor**: reviews, comments on, and approves business analysis information.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**3.4.8 Outputs** 

**• Information Management Approach**: includes the defined approach for  

how business analysis information will be stored, accessed, and utilized during  

the change and after the change is complete.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**3.5 Identify Business Analysis Performance  Improvements** 

**3.5.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements is to assess  

business analysis work and to plan to improve processes where required. 

**3.5.2 Description** 

To monitor and improve performance, it is necessary to establish the performance  

measures, conduct the performance analysis, report on the results of the analysis,  

and identify any necessary preventive, corrective, or developmental actions.  

Performance analysis should occur throughout an initiative. Once potential  

performance improvements are identified, they become guidelines for the next  

time a task is executed. 

**3.5.3 Inputs** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: identifies business analysis deliverables that will  

be produced, activities that will need to be performed (including when they will  

be performed and who will be performing them), and techniques that will be  

used. 

**• Performance Objectives (external)**: describe the desired performance  

outcomes that an enterprise or organization is hoping to achieve.

47   
Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

**Figure 3.5.1: Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements Input/Output Diagram** 

**Input** 

**Guidelines and Tools**   
**Performance  Objectives  (external)**   
**3.1**  

**Business Analysis  Approach** 

**3.5 Identify Business Analysis**    
**Performance Improvements** Organizational Performance    
Standards 

**Output**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**3.5** 

**Business Analysis**  

**Performance**  

**Assessment** 

**Tasks Using This Output**

**3.1** 

**Plan Business  Analysis Approach**   
**3.3** 

**Plan Business**  

**Analysis**  

**Governance**  

**3.4**   
**3.2** 

**Plan Stakeholder  Engagement** 

**4.5** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**3.5.4 Elements** 

**.1 Performance Analysis**   
**Plan Business  Analysis**    
**Information  Management**    
**Manage**  

**Stakeholder  Collaboration** 

What constitutes effective business analysis work depends on the context of a  particular organization or initiative. Reports on business analysis performance can  be informal and verbal, or they may include formal documentation. Reports on  business analysis performance are designed and tailored to meet the needs of the  various types of reviewers. 

**.2 Assessment Measures** 

If current measures exist, the business analyst may leverage them or determine  new measures. The business analyst may also elicit assessment measures from  stakeholders. 

Performance measures may be based on deliverable due dates as specified in the  

48   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements 

All performance  metrics will  

encourage certain  behaviours and  discourage others.  Poorly chosen  metrics may drive  behaviour that is  detrimental to the  enterprise as a  whole.   
business analysis plan, metrics such as the frequency of the changes to business  analysis work products, the number of review cycles required, task efficiency, or  qualitative feedback from stakeholders and peers regarding the business analyst’s  

deliverables. Appropriate performance measures enable the business analyst to  determine when problems are occurring that may affect the performance of  business analysis or identify opportunities for improvement. Measures may be  both quantitative and qualitative. Qualitative measures are subjective and can be  heavily influenced by the stakeholder’s attitudes, perceptions, and other  subjective criteria. 

Some possible measures are: 

• **Accuracy and Completeness**: determine whether the business analyst  work products were correct and relevant when delivered, or whether  ongoing revisions were needed to gain acceptance by stakeholders. Complimentary IIBA   
• **Knowledge**: assess whether the business analyst had the skills and/or  experience to perform the assigned task. 

• **Effectiveness**: assess whether the business analyst work products were  easy to use as standalone deliverables or whether they required extensive  explanation in order to be understood. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• **Organizational Support**: assess whether there were adequate resources  available to complete business analysis activities as needed. 

• **Significance**: consider the benefit obtained from the work products and  assess whether the cost, time, and resource investments expended to  produce the work products were justified for the value they delivered. 

• **Strategic**: look at whether business objectives were met, problems were  solved, and improvements were achieved. 

• **Timeliness**: evaluate whether the business analyst delivered the work on  time per stakeholder expectations and schedule. 

**.3 Analyze Results** 

The business analysis process and deliverables are compared against the set of  defined measures. The analysis may be performed on the business analysis  process, the resources involved, and the deliverables. 

Performance may be determined from the point of view of the stakeholders who  are the recipients of the business analysis work. Other times a personnel manager  or a Centre of Excellence may make this determination and provide assessments.  All stakeholders may have input in assessing the value of the business analysis  

work but organizations may differ in terms of who has the authority to set the  targets against which performance is measured. 

**.4 Recommend Actions for Improvement** 

Once the analysis of performance results is complete, the business analyst  engages the appropriate stakeholders to identify the following actions: 

• **Preventive**: reduces the probability of an event with a negative impact.

49   
Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

• **Corrective**: establishes ways to reduce the negative impact of an event. 

• **Improvement**: establishes ways to increase the probability or impact of  

events with a positive impact. 

These actions are likely to result in changes to the business analysis approach,  

repeatable processes, and tools. 

**3.5.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Organizational Performance Standards**: may include performance metrics  

or expectations for business analysis work mandated by the organization. 

**3.5.6 Techniques** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Brainstorming**: used to generate ideas for improvement opportunities. 

**• Interviews**: used to gather assessments of business analysis performance. 

**• Item Tracking**: used to track issues that occur during the performance of  

business analysis for later resolution. 

**• Lessons Learned**: used to identify recommended changes to business analysis  

processes, deliverables, templates, and other organizational process assets that  

can be incorporated into the current initiative and future work. 

**• Metrics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)**: used to determine what  

metrics are appropriate for assessing business analysis performance and how  

they may be tracked. 

**• Observation**: used to witness business analysis performance. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**• Process Analysis**: used to analyze existing business analysis processes and  

identify opportunities for improvement. 

**• Process Modelling**: used to define business analysis processes and understand  

how to improve those processes to reduce problems from hand-offs, improve  

cycle times, or alter how business analysis work is performed to support  

improvements in downstream processes. 

**• Reviews**: used to identify changes to business analysis processes and  

deliverables that can be incorporated into future work. 

**• Risk Analysis and Management**: used to identify and manage potential  

conditions or events that may impact business analysis performance. 

**• Root Cause Analysis**: used to help identify the underlying cause of failures or  

difficulties in accomplishing business analysis work. 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to gather feedback from stakeholders about  

their satisfaction with business analysis activities and deliverables. 

**• Workshops**: used to gather assessments of business analysis performance and  

generate ideas for improvement opportunities.

50   
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements 

**3.5.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Experts**: should be informed about the business  

analysis activities in order to set expectations regarding their involvement in the  work and to elicit their feedback regarding possible improvements to the  

approach. 

**• Project Manager**: is accountable for the success of a project and must be kept  informed of the current status of business analysis work. If potential problems  

or opportunities for improvement are identified, the project manager must be  

consulted before changes are implemented to assess whether those changes  

will have an impact on the project. They may also deliver reports on business  

analysis performance to the sponsor and other stakeholders. 

**• Sponsor**: may require reports on business analysis performance to address    
Complimentary IIBA   
problems as they are identified. A manager of business analysts may also  

sponsor initiatives to improve the performance of business analysis activities. 

**3.5.8 Outputs** 

**• Business Analysis Performance Assessment**: includes a comparison of    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
planned versus actual performance, identifying the root cause of variances from  the expected performance, proposed approaches to address issues, and other  

findings to help understand the performance of business analysis processes.

51   
Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.Complimentary IIBA 

52   
**4 Elicitation and Collaboration**   
Complimentary IIBA   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
The Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area describes the tasks that  

business analysts perform to obtain information from stakeholders and confirm  the results. It also describes the communication with stakeholders once the  

business analysis information is assembled. 

Elicitation is the drawing forth or receiving of information from stakeholders or  other sources. It is the main path to discovering requirements and design  

information, and might involve talking with stakeholders directly, researching  topics, experimenting, or simply being handed information. Collaboration is the  act of two or more people working together towards a common goal. The  

Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area describes how business analysts  identify and reach agreement on the mutual understanding of all types of  

business analysis information. Elicitation and collaboration work is never a 'phase'  in business analysis; rather, it is ongoing as long as business analysis work is  

occurring. 

Elicitation and collaboration can be planned, unplanned, or both. Planned  

activities such as workshops, experiments, and/or surveys can be structured and  organized in advance. Unplanned activities happen in the moment without  

notice, such as last-minute or 'just in time' collaboration or conversations.  

Business analysis information derived from an unplanned activity may require  deeper exploration through a planned activity. 

Eliciting business analysis information is not an isolated activity. Information is  elicited while performing any task that includes interaction with stakeholders and  while the business analyst is performing independent analytical work. Elicitation  may trigger additional elicitation for details to fill in gaps or increase  

understanding.

53   
Elicitation and Collaboration 

The Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area is composed of the following  

tasks: 

• **Prepare for Elicitation**: involves ensuring that the stakeholders have the  

information they need to provide and that they understand the nature of  

the activities they are going to perform. It also sets a shared set of  

expectations regarding the outcomes of the activity. Preparation may also  

involve identifying research sources or preparing to conduct an experiment  

to see if a process change actually results in an improvement. 

• **Conduct Elicitation**: describes the work performed to understand  

stakeholder needs and identify potential solutions that may meet those  

needs. This may involve direct interaction with stakeholders, doing research,  

or running experiments. 

• **Confirm Elicitation Results**: involves ensuring that stakeholders have a    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
shared understanding of the outcomes of elicitation, that elicited  

information is recorded appropriately, and that the business analyst has the  

information sought from an elicitation activity. This task also involves  

comparing the information received with other information to look for  

inconsistencies or gaps. 

• **Communicate Business Analysis Information**: provides stakeholders  

with the information they need, at the time they need it. The information is  

presented in a useful form, using the right terminology and concepts. 

• **Manage Stakeholder Collaboration**: describes working with  

stakeholders to engage them in the overall business analysis process and to  

ensure that the business analyst can deliver the outcomes needed. 

**The Core Concept Model in Elicitation and**    
Complimentary IIBA   
**Collaboration** 

The *Business Analysis Core Concept Model™* (*BACCM™*) describes the  

relationships among the six core concepts. 

The following table describes the usage and application of each of the core  

concepts within the context of Elicitation and Collaboration.

54   
Elicitation and Collaboration 

**Table 4.0.1: The Core Concept Model in Elicitation and Collaboration**  

**Core Concept During Elicitation and Collaboration,  business analysts...** 

**Change**: the act of transformation  in response to a need. 

**Need**: a problem or opportunity to  be addressed. 

**Solution**: a specific way of  satisfying one or more needs in a  context. 

**Stakeholder**: a group or  

individual with a relationship to  the change, the need, or the  solution. 

**Value**: the worth, importance, or  usefulness of something to a  stakeholder within a context. 

**Context**: the circumstances that  influence, are influenced by, and  provide understanding of the  change.   
use a variety of elicitation techniques to  fully identify the characteristics of the  change including concerns that  stakeholders have about the change. The  change itself may determine the  appropriate types and extent of elicitation  and collaboration. 

elicit, confirm, and communicate needs  and supporting business analysis  information. As elicitation is iterative and  incremental, the understanding of needs  may evolve over time. 

elicit, confirm, and communicate  necessary or desired characteristics of  proposed solutions. 

manage the collaboration with the  stakeholders who participate in the  business analysis work. All stakeholders  may participate in different roles and at  different times during a change. 

collaborate with stakeholders to assess  the relative value of information provided  through elicitation, and apply a variety of  techniques to confirm and communicate  that value. 

apply a variety of elicitation techniques to  identify business analysis information  about the context that may affect the  change.

Complimentary IIBA ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale. 

55   
Prepare for Elicitation Elicitation and Collaboration 

**Figure 4.0.1: Elicitation and Collaboration Input/Output Diagram Input** 

**3.2** 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Needs Business Analysis  Information 

**3.5**  

Business Analysis  

Performance  

Assessment 

**Tasks**   
Stakeholder  Engagement  Approach 

**4.1** 

**Prepare for**  

**Elicitation** 

**4.4** 

**4.2** 

**Conduct Elicitation**   
**4.3** 

**Confirm Elicitation  Results** 

**4.5**  

Complimentary IIBA 

**4.1**   
**Communicate**  

**Business Analysis**  

**Information** 

**Output**

**4.2**   
**Manage**  

**Stakeholder**  

**Collaboration** 

**4.3** 

Elicitation Activity  Plan 

**4.4**   
Elicitation Results  (unconfirmed)   
Elicitation Results  

(confirmed) 

**4.5**   
Business Analysis  

Information  

(communicated) 

**4.1 Prepare for Elicitation 4.1.1 Purpose** 

Stakeholder  Engagement 

The purpose of Prepare for Elicitation is to understand the scope of the elicitation  activity, select appropriate techniques, and plan for (or procure) appropriate  supporting materials and resources. 

56   
Elicitation and Collaboration Prepare for Elicitation 

**4.1.2 Description** 

Business analysts prepare for elicitation by defining the desired outcomes of the  activity, considering the stakeholders involved and the goals of the initiative. This  includes determining which work products will be produced using the elicitation  results, deciding which techniques are best suited to produce those results,  

establishing the elicitation logistics, identifying any supporting materials needed,  and understanding circumstances to foster collaboration during an elicitation  

activity. 

**4.1.3 Inputs** 

**• Needs**: guides the preparation in terms of the scope and purpose of elicitation  activities. Elicitation can be used to discover the needs, but in order to get    
Complimentary IIBA   
started there must be some need that exists—even if it has not yet been fully  

elicited or understood. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: understanding stakeholders'  

communication and collaboration needs helps plan and prepare appropriate  

and effective elicitation events. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Figure 4.1.1: Prepare for Elicitation Input/Output Diagram** 

**Input**

**Guidelines and Tools** Business Analysis Approach 

Business Objectives 

**Needs**   
**3.2** 

**Stakeholder  Engagement  Approach** 

Existing Business Analysis  Information 

Potential Value   
**4.1 Prepare for Elicitation Output** 

**4.1** 

**Elicitation** 

**Activity Plan** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

**4.2** 

**Conduct Elicitation**   
**4.3** 

**Confirm Elicitation  Results** 

57   
Prepare for Elicitation Elicitation and Collaboration 

**4.1.4 Elements** 

**.1 Understand the Scope of Elicitation** 

To determine the type of business analysis information to be discovered during  

the elicitation activity and the techniques that may be used, business analysts  

consider: 

• business domain, 

• overall corporate culture and environment, 

• stakeholder locations, 

• stakeholders who are involved and their group dynamics, 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• expected outputs the elicitation activities will feed, 

• skills of the business analysis practitioner, 

• other elicitation activities planned to complement this one, 

• strategy or solution approach, 

• scope of future solution, and 

• possible sources of the business analysis information that might feed into  

the specific elicitation activity. 

Understanding the scope of the elicitation activity allows business analysts to  

respond if the activity strays from the intended scope. It also allows them to  

recognize if people and materials are not available in time, and when the activity  

is complete.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**.2 Select Elicitation Techniques** 

In most cases, multiple techniques are used during an elicitation activity. The  

techniques used depend on cost and time constraints, the types of business  

analysis information sources and their access, the culture of the organization, and  

the desired outcomes. The business analyst may also factor in the needs of the  

stakeholders, their availability, and their location (co-located or dispersed).  

Choosing the right techniques and ensuring each technique is performed  

correctly is extremely important to the success of the elicitation activity. When  

selecting elicitation techniques, business analysts consider: 

• techniques commonly used in similar initiatives, 

• techniques specifically suited to the situation, and 

• the tasks needed to prepare, execute, and complete each technique. 

Due to changing dynamics and situations, the business analyst may be required to  

adjust the initial selections by incorporating more appropriate techniques. A  

thorough understanding of the variety of techniques available assists the business  

analyst in adapting to changing circumstances.

58   
Elicitation and Collaboration Prepare for Elicitation 

**.3 Set Up Logistics** 

Logistics are planned prior to an elicitation activity. The logistics for each  elicitation activity include identifying: 

• the activity's goals, 

• participants and their roles, 

• scheduled resources, including people, rooms, and tools, 

• locations, 

• communication channels, 

• techniques, and 

• languages used by stakeholders (oral and written).   
Complimentary IIBA   
The logistics may also involve creating an agenda if other stakeholders are  involved. 

**.4 Secure Supporting Material** 

Business analysts identify sources of information that are needed to conduct the  ® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
elicitation activity. There might be a great deal of information needed to conduct  elicitation including people, systems, historical data, materials and documents.  Documents could include existing system documents, relevant business rules,  organizational polices, regulations, and contracts. Supporting materials might  also take the form of outputs of analysis work, such as draft versions of analysis  models (see Specify and Model Requirements (p. 136)). Business analysts procure  or develop the materials and tools needed. Additional planning for experimental  elicitation might be required if novel tools, equipment, or techniques are going to  be used. 

**.5 Prepare Stakeholders** 

Business analysts may need to educate stakeholders on how an elicitation  technique works or what information is needed. It may be helpful to explain an  elicitation technique to stakeholders not involved in the activity to help them  understand the validity and relevance of the information elicited. Stakeholders  may be unresponsive or challenging during an elicitation activity if they feel that it  is not aligned to their individual objectives, don't understand the purpose, or are  confused about the process. In preparing for elicitation, the business analyst  should ensure that there is buy-in from all necessary stakeholders. 

Business analysts may also prepare stakeholders by requesting that they review  supporting materials prior to the elicitation activity in order to make it as effective  as possible. An agenda might be provided in advance to support stakeholders in  coming prepared to the activity with the necessary frame of mind and  information. 

Eliciting through research or exploration may be a solo activity for the business  analyst and not require preparing other stakeholders.

59   
Prepare for Elicitation Elicitation and Collaboration 

**4.1.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: sets the general strategy to be used to guide  

the business analysis work. This includes the general methodology, types of  

stakeholders and how they should be involved, list of stakeholders, timing of  

the work, expected format and level of detail of elicitation results, and  

identified challenges and uncertainties. 

**• Business Objectives**: describe the desired direction needed to achieve the  

future state. They can be used to plan and prepare elicitation events, and to  

develop supporting materials. 

**• Existing Business Analysis Information**: may provide a better understanding  

of the goals of the elicitation activity, and aid in preparing for elicitation. 

**• Potential Value**: describes the value to be realized by implementing the    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
proposed future state, and can be used to shape elicitation events. 

**4.1.6 Techniques** 

**• Brainstorming**: used to collaboratively identify and reach consensus about  

which sources of business analysis information should be consulted and which  

elicitation techniques might be most effective. 

**• Data Mining**: used to identify information or patterns that require further  

investigation. 

**• Document Analysis**: used to identify and assess candidate sources of  

supporting materials. 

**• Estimation**: used to estimate the time and effort required for the elicitation  

and the associated cost.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**• Interviews**: used to identify concerns about the planned elicitation, and can be  

used to seek authority to proceed with specific options. 

**• Mind Mapping**: used to collaboratively identify and reach consensus about  

which sources of business analysis information should be consulted and which  

elicitation techniques might be most effective. 

**• Risk Analysis and Management**: used to identify, assess, and manage  

conditions or situations that could disrupt the elicitation, or affect the quality  

and validity of the elicitation results. The plans for the elicitation should be  

adjusted to avoid, transfer, or mitigate the most serious risks. 

**• Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas**: used to determine who should be  

consulted while preparing for the elicitation, who should participate in the  

event, and the appropriate roles for each stakeholder. 

**4.1.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: provides supporting materials as well as  

guidance about which other sources of business analysis information to consult.  

May also help to arrange research, experiments, and facilitated elicitation.

60   
Elicitation and Collaboration Conduct Elicitation 

**• Project Manager**: ensures that the appropriate people and resources are  

available to conduct the elicitation. 

**• Sponsor**: has the authority to approve or deny a planned elicitation event, and  

to authorize and require the participation of specific stakeholders. 

**4.1.8 Outputs** 

**• Elicitation Activity Plan**: used for each elicitation activity. It includes logistics,  

scope of the elicitation activity, selected techniques, and supporting materials. 

**4.2 Conduct Elicitation** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**4.2.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Conduct Elicitation is to draw out, explore, and identify  

information relevant to the change. 

**4.2.2 Description**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
There are three common types of elicitation: 

• **Collaborative**: involves direct interaction with stakeholders, and relies on  

their experiences, expertise, and judgment. 

• **Research**: involves systematically discovering and studying information  

from materials or sources that are not directly known by stakeholders  

involved in the change. Stakeholders might still participate in the research.  

Research can include data analysis of historical data to identify trends or  

past results. 

• **Experiments**: involves identifying information that could not be known  

without some sort of controlled test. Some information cannot be drawn  

from people or documents—because it is unknown. Experiments can help  

discover this kind of information. Experiments include observational studies,  

proofs of concept, and prototypes. 

One or more elicitation techniques may be used to produce the desired outcome  

within the scope of elicitation. 

Stakeholders may collaborate in elicitation by: 

• participating and interacting during the elicitation activity, and 

• researching, studying, and providing feedback on documents, systems,  

models, and interfaces. 

**4.2.3 Inputs** 

**• Elicitation Activity Plan**: includes the planned elicitation activities and  

techniques, activity logistics (for example, date, time, location, resources, 

61   
Conduct Elicitation Elicitation and Collaboration 

agenda), scope of the elicitation activity, and available sources of background  information. 

**Figure 4.2.1: Conduct Elicitation Input/Output Diagram** 

**Input** 

**Guidelines and Tools**

Business Analysis Approach 

Existing Business Analysis  

Information 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Stakeholder Engagement  

Approach 

Supporting Materials 

Complimentary IIBA   
**4.2.4 Elements** 

**.1 Guide Elicitation Activity**   
**4.1** 

**Elicitation Activity**  

**Plan** 

**4.2**  

**Conduct Elicitation Output** 

**4.2** 

**Elicitation** 

**Results**  

**(unconfirmed)** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

**4.3** 

**Confirm Elicitation**  

**Results** 

Understanding the proposed representations of business analysis information,  which were defined in planning, helps ensure that the elicitation activities are  focused on producing the intended information at the desired level of detail. This  applies to each instance of an elicitation activity throughout a change and may  vary based on the activity. In order to help guide and facilitate towards the  expected outcomes, business analysts consider: 

• the elicitation activity goals and agenda, 

• scope of the change, 

• what forms of output the activity will generate, 

• what other representations the activity results will support, 

• how the output integrates into what is already known, 

• who provides the information, 

62   
Elicitation and Collaboration Conduct Elicitation 

• who will use the information, and 

• how the information will be used. 

While most of these are considered when planning for the elicitation activity (see  Prepare for Elicitation (p. 56)), they are also all important while performing the  

elicitation activity in order to keep it on track and achieve its goal. For example,  stakeholders might have discussions that are out of scope for the activity or  

change, and the business analyst needs to recognize that in the moment to  

determine the next step; either acknowledge it and continue, or guide the  

conversation differently. 

The business analyst also uses this information to determine when there has been  sufficient elicitation, in order to stop the activity. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**.2 Capture Elicitation Outcomes** 

Conducting elicitation is frequently iterative and takes place in a series of  

sessions—in parallel or in sequence—according to the scope of the elicitation  

activity (see Prepare for Elicitation (p. 56)). If the elicitation activity is unplanned,  outcomes are captured and integrated into the appropriate planned outcomes. 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
Capturing the elicitation outcomes helps to ensure that the information produced  during elicitation activities is recorded for later reference and use. 

**4.2.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: influences how each elicitation activity is  

performed, as it identifies the types of outputs that will be needed based on the  approach. 

**• Existing Business Analysis Information**: may guide the questions posed  

during elicitation and the approach used to draw out information from various  

stakeholders. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: provides collaboration and  

communication approaches that might be effective during elicitation. 

**• Supporting Materials**: includes any materials to prepare both the business  

analyst and participants before elicitation, as well as any information, tools, or  

equipment to be used during the elicitation. 

**4.2.6 Techniques** 

**• Benchmarking and Market Analysis**: used as a source of business analysis  information by comparing a specific process, system, product, service, or  

structure with some external baseline, such as a similar organization or baseline  provided by an industry association. Market analysis is used to determine what  

customers want and what competitors provide. 

**• Brainstorming**: used to generate many ideas from a group of stakeholders in a  short period, and to organize and prioritize those ideas.

63   
Conduct Elicitation Elicitation and Collaboration 

**• Business Rules Analysis**: used to identify the rules that govern decisions in an  

organization and that define, constrain, or enable organizational operations. 

**• Collaborative Games**: used to develop a better understanding of a problem or  

to stimulate creative solutions. 

**• Concept Modelling**: used to identify key terms and ideas of importance and  

define the relationships between them. 

**• Data Mining**: used to identify relevant information and patterns. 

**• Data Modelling**: used to understand entity relationships during elicitation. 

**• Document Analysis**: used to review existing systems, contracts, business  

procedures and policies, standards, and regulations. 

**• Focus Groups**: used to identify and understand ideas and attitudes from a  

group.   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**• Interface Analysis**: used to understand the interaction, and characteristics of  

that interaction, between two entities, such as two systems, two organizations,  

or two people or roles. 

**• Interviews**: used to ask questions of stakeholders to uncover needs, identify  

problems, or discover opportunities. 

**• Mind Mapping**: used to generate many ideas from a group of stakeholders in  

a short period, and to organize and prioritize those ideas. 

**• Observation**: used to gain insight about how work is currently done, possibly  

in different locations and in different circumstances. 

**• Process Analysis**: used to understand current processes and to identify  

opportunities for improvement in those processes. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**• Process Modelling**: used to elicit processes with stakeholders during elicitation  

activities. 

**• Prototyping**: used to elicit and validate stakeholders' needs through an  

iterative process that creates a model of requirements or designs. 

**• Survey or Questionnaire**: used to elicit business analysis information,  

including information about customers, products, work practices, and attitudes,  

from a group of people in a structured way and in a relatively short period of  

time. 

**• Workshops**: used to elicit business analysis information, including information  

about customers, products, work practices, and attitudes, from a group of  

people in a collaborative, facilitated way. 

**4.2.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Customer**: will provide valuable business analysis information during  

elicitation. 

**• Domain Subject Matter Expert**: has expertise in some aspect of the situation  

and can provide the required business analysis information. Often guides and 

64   
Elicitation and Collaboration Confirm Elicitation Results 

assists the business analyst in identifying appropriate research sources, and may  

help to arrange research, experiments, and facilitated elicitation. 

**• End User**: the user of existing and future solutions, who should participate in  

elicitation. 

**• Implementation Subject Matter Expert**: designs and implements a solution  

and provides specialist expertise, and can participate in elicitation by asking  

clarifying questions and offering alternatives. 

**• Sponsor**: authorizes and ensures that the stakeholders necessary to participate  

in elicitation are involved. 

**• Any stakeholders**: could have relevant knowledge or experience to participate  

in elicitation activities. 

Complimentary IIBA   
**4.2.8 Outputs** 

**• Elicitation Results (unconfirmed)**: captured information in a format that is  

specific to the elicitation activity. 

**4.3 Confirm Elicitation Results**   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**4.3.1 Purpose** 

The purpose of Confirm Elicitation Results is to check the information gathered  

during an elicitation session for accuracy and consistency with other information. 

**4.3.2 Description** 

Elicited information is confirmed to identify any problems and resolve them  

before resources are committed to using the information. This review may  

discover errors, omissions, conflicts, and ambiguity. 

The elicitation results can be compared against their source and other elicitation  

results to ensure consistency. Collaboration with stakeholders might be necessary  

to ensure their inputs are correctly captured and that they agree with the results  

of non-facilitated elicitation. If information is not correct, the business analyst  

determines what is correct, which can require more elicitation. Committing  

resources to business analysis activities based on unconfirmed elicitation results  

may mean stakeholder expectations are not met. If the results are inconsistent,  

additional elicitation might need to be conducted to resolve the discrepancies. 

Confirming the elicitation results is a much less rigorous and formal review than  

occurs during analysis. 

**4.3.3 Inputs** 

**• Elicitation Results (unconfirmed)**: capture information in a format specific to  

the elicitation activity.

65   
Confirm Elicitation Results Elicitation and Collaboration 

**Figure 4.3.1: Confirm Elicitation Results** 

**Guidelines and Tools** 

Elicitation Activity Plan 

**Input**

**4.2** 

**Elicitation Results  (unconfirmed)** 

**4.3** 

Existing Business Analysis  

Information 

® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
**Confirm Elicitation Results Output** 

**4.3** 

**Elicitation Results**  

**(confirmed)** 

**Tasks Using This Output** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**4.3.4 Elements**   
**6.1** 

**Analyze Current  State** 

**6.3** 

**Assess Risks** 

**.1 Compare Elicitation Results Against Source Information** 

Task Conduct Elicitation (p. 61\) describes sources from which elicitation results  may be derived, including documents and stakeholder knowledge. The business  analyst may lead follow-up meetings where stakeholders correct the elicitation  results. Stakeholders may also confirm the elicitation results independently. 

**.2 Compare Elicitation Results Against Other Elicitation Results** 

Business analysts compare results collected through multiple elicitation activities  to confirm that the information is consistent and accurately represented. As  comparisons are drawn, business analysts identify variations in results and resolve  them in collaboration with stakeholders. Comparisons may also be made with  historical data to confirm more recent elicitation results. 

Inconsistencies in elicitation results are often uncovered when business analysts  develop specifications and models. These models may be developed during an  elicitation activity to improve collaboration. 

66   
Elicitation and Collaboration Communicate Business Analysis Information 

**4.3.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Elicitation Activity Plan**: used to guide which alternative sources and which  

elicitation results are to be compared. 

**• Existing Business Analysis Information**: can be used to confirm the results  

of elicitation activities or to develop additional questions to draw out more  

detailed information. 

**4.3.6 Techniques** 

**• Document Analysis**: used to confirm elicitation results against source  

information or other existing documents. 

**• Interviews**: used to confirm the business analysis information and to confirm  

that the integration of that information is correct.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**• Reviews**: used to confirm a set of elicitation results. Such reviews could be  

informal or formal depending on the risks of not having correct, useful, and  

relevant information. 

**• Workshops**: used to conduct reviews of the drafted elicitation results using any  

level of formality. A predetermined agenda, scripts, or scenario tests may be    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
used to walk through the elicitation results, and feedback is requested from the  

participants and recorded. 

**4.3.7 Stakeholders** 

**• Domain Subject Matter Experts**: people with substantial knowledge,  

experience, or expertise about the business analysis information being elicited,  

or about the change or the solution, help to confirm that elicitation results are  

correct, and can help to identify omissions, inconsistencies and conflicts in  

elicitation results. They can also confirm that the right business analysis  

information has been elicited. 

**• Any stakeholder**: all types of stakeholders may need to participate in  

confirming elicitation results. 

**4.3.8 Outputs** 

**• Elicitation Results (confirmed)**: integrated output that the business analyst  

and other stakeholders agree correctly reflects captured information and  

confirms that it is relevant and useful as an input to further work. 

**4.4 Communicate Business Analysis Information 4.4.1 Purpose**   
The purpose of Communicate Business Analysis Information is to ensure  

stakeholders have a shared understanding of business analysis information.

67   
Communicate Business Analysis Information Elicitation and Collaboration 

**4.4.2 Description** 

Business analysts must communicate appropriate information to stakeholders at  

the right time and in formats that meet their needs. Consideration is given to  

expressing the information in language, tone, and style that is appropriate to the  

audience. 

Communication of business analysis information is bi-directional and iterative. It  

involves determining the recipients, content, purpose, context, and expected  

outcomes. Task Plan Stakeholder Engagement (p. 31\) evaluates communication  

needs and plans anticipated messages. 

Communicating information does not simply involve pushing information out and  

assuming it was received and understood. Business analysts engage stakeholders  

to ensure they understand the information and gain agreement. The business  

analyst acts on any disagreements. The method of delivering the information may    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
need to change if the stakeholders are not receiving or understanding it. Multiple  

forms of communication might be required for the same information. 

**4.4.3 Inputs** 

**• Business Analysis Information**: any kind of information at any level of detail  

that is used as an input or output of business analysis work. Business analysis  

information becomes an input for this task when the need is discovered to  

communicate the information to additional stakeholders. 

**• Stakeholder Engagement Approach**: describes stakeholder groups, roles,  

and general needs regarding communication of business analysis information. 

**Figure 4.4.1: Communicate Business Analysis Information Input/Output Diagram** 

Complimentary IIBA   
**Input**

**3.2** 

**Business Analysis**  

**Information** 

**Guidelines and Tools** 

Business Analysis Approach   
**Stakeholder**  

**Engagement**  

**Approach** 

**4.4** 

Information Management  Approach   
**Communicate Business Analysis  Information** 

**Output** 

**4.4** 

**Business Analysis**  

**Information**  

**(communicated)** 

68   
Elicitation and Collaboration Communicate Business Analysis Information 

**4.4.4 Elements** 

**.1 Determine Objectives and Format of Communication** 

Business analysis information packages may be prepared for a number of reasons  including—but not limited to—the following: 

• communication of requirements and designs to stakeholders, 

• early assessment of quality and planning, 

• evaluation of possible alternatives, 

• formal reviews and approvals, 

• inputs to solution design, 

• conformance to contractual and regulatory obligations, and   
Complimentary IIBA   
• maintenance for reuse. 

The primary goal of developing a package is to convey information clearly and in  usable format for continuing change activities. To help decide how to present  

requirements, business analysts ask the following types of questions: 

• Who is the audience of the package?   
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
• What will each type of stakeholder understand and need from the  

communication? 

• What is each stakeholder’s preferred style of communication or learning? 

• What information is important to communicate? 

• Are the presentation and format of the package, and the information  

contained in the package, appropriate for the type of audience? 

• How does the package support other activities? 

• Are there any regulatory or contractual constraints to conform to? 

Possible forms for packages may include: 

• **Formal Documentation**: is usually based on a template used by the  

organization and may include text, matrices, or diagrams. It provides a  

stable, easy to use, long-term record of the information. 

• **Informal Documentation**: may include text, diagrams, or matrices that  

are used during a change but are not part of a formal organizational  

process. 

• **Presentations**: deliver a high-level overview appropriate for understanding  

goals of a change, functions of a solution, or information to support  

decision making. 

Consideration is given to the best way to combine and present the materials to  convey a cohesive and effective message to one or more stakeholder groups.  

Packages can be stored in different online or offline repositories, including  

documents or tools.

69   
Communicate Business Analysis Information Elicitation and Collaboration 

**.2 Communicate Business Analysis Package** 

The purpose of communicating the business analysis package is to provide  

stakeholders with the appropriate level of detail about the change so they can  

understand the information it contains. Stakeholders are given the opportunity to  

review the package, ask questions about the information, and raise any concerns  

they may have. 

Selecting the appropriate communication platform is also important. Common  

communication platforms include: 

• **Group collaboration**: used to communicate the package to a group of  

relevant stakeholders at the same time. It allows immediate discussion  

about the information and related issues. 

• **Individual collaboration**: used to communicate the package to a single  

stakeholder at a time. It can be used to gain individual understanding of the    
® Member Copy. Not for Distribution or Resale.   
information when a group setting is not feasible, most productive, or going  

to yield the best results. 

• **E-mail or other non-verbal methods**: used to communicate the package  

when there is a high maturity level of information that will need little or no  

verbal explanation to support it. 

**4.4.5 Guidelines and Tools** 

**• Business Analysis Approach**: describes how the various types of information  

will be disseminated rather than what will be disseminated. It describes the level  

of detail and formality required, frequency of the communications, and how  

communications could be affected by the number and geographic dispersion of  

stakeholders. 

**• Information Management Approach**: helps determine how business analysis  

information will be packaged and communicated to stakeholders.   
Complimentary IIBA   
**4.4.6 Techniques** 

**• Interviews**: used to individually communicate information to stakeholders. 

**• Reviews**: used to provide stakeholders with an opportunity to express  

feedback, request required adjustments, understand required responses and  

actions, and agree or provide approvals. Reviews can be used during group or  

individual collaboration. 

**• Workshops**: used to provide stakeholders with an opportunity to express  

feedback and to understand required adjustments, responses, and actions. They  

are also useful for gaining consensus and providing approvals. Typically used  

during group collaboration. 

**4.4.7 Stakeholders** 

**• End User**: needs to be communicated with frequently so they are aware of  

relevant business analysis information. 

**• Customer**: needs to be communicated with frequently so they are aware of  

relevant business analysis information.

70 